debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 1
the Tuesday 12 October 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
30 - sixth Parliament Ouverture of the second session
communication of the Secretary of the Gouverneure general
the business of the Senate
new Senator
Presented
second sitting
speech of the Throne
bill of bill regarding the Railway of railway
first Reading
the speech of the Throne
study to the next sitting
the Committee of selection
appointment
the SENATE
the Tuesday 12 October 99
30 - sixth Parliament Ouverture of the second session
the Parliament having been meant by proclamation for the entity of the Affairs today today ,
the sitting is met to 11 p.m. 30 , the Speaker met to the Chair .
prayers .
communication of the Secretary of the Gouverneure general
his Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that he has received of the Secretary of the Gouverneure general the communication next :
the 8 October 99
Mr. the Speaker ,
the Secretary of the Gouverneure general ,
the hon.
the Speaker of the Senate
the business of the Senate
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , I like highlight that he not there has not of interpretation translation this morning .
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , this is exactly .
there has he average of pallier this lack , because each of the stakeholders need then use the two languages official ?
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , unfortunately , this not is not possible met given that this after - afternoon , we have the speech of the Throne and that the fauteuils not are not munis of ?couteurs or of transmetteurs .
we can certainly ask to all of speak in the two languages official .
the Senator Nolin :
I am prepared to the do .
new Senator
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I have the honour of inform the Senate that the Clerk has received of the registraire General of the Canada a certificate setting that J . Clairvaux Boudreau , C , has been called to the Senate .
Presented
his Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that a Senator expected to the door for be presented .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau , of Halifax ( Nova - Nova ) presented by the hon. B . Alasdair Grahamc.p. , and the hon. John B . Stewart .
his Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that the hon. Senator away has fact and signed the statement of ability subscribed by the Act constitutional of 1867 , in presence of the Clerk of the Senate , Commissioner responsible of receive and of subscribed this statement .
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the debate is adjourned to 14 p.m. 30 . )
second sitting
the sitting is met to 14 p.m. 30 , the Speaker met to the Chair .
his Hon. the Speaker :
as we not have nothing to do , honourable senators , you pleasure - he that the Senate if adjourned to pleasure in appeals the arrived of His Excellency the Gouverneure general ?
( the Senate if adjourned to pleasure . )
speech of the Throne
to 14 p.m. 45 , His Excellency the Gouverneure general sometimes in the Room of the Senate and takes place on the seated .
he pleasure to His Excellency of Appear that the Commons ensure revitalizing and , the House of the Commons met arrived , he pleasure to His Excellency of open the second session of the 30 - sixth Parliament by the speech following :
honourable senators and s?natrices ,
aspect and Messieurs the members ,
aspect and Messieurs ,
I have the honour today today of open this second session of the 30 - sixth Parliament of the Canada .
I am all to fact balancing of the inaction that you are if many to do on the plans staff and professional in accepting the challenges that represents a reminder public .
I sharing the commitment that you have took and I me delighted to the perspective of work with you during the five next years to the service of the people Canadian .
the representatives of the people Canadian are gathered today today for open the session of the Parliament who annuity the country toward the new millennium .
to the below of a new century , we have confidence in the future that slogan the Canada to our children and to our grandchildren - children .
the Technology severing all the aspects of our life .
the know and the creativity constitute now the drives of the new economy .
and the cooperation becomes more essential to legislation that the challenges introduced to our society pluraliste earn in grow .
however , in this world in transferred , the Canadians and the delay too the success , as they the have always fact all to the long of the history of our country .
the promise that expression the Canada is born to a then where the country were trained to the cauldron of the war or of the r?volutions .
the founding of our nation have chosen a seaway who is become the manner Canadian : they have created a country deep to the peace , to the Order and to the good government for all his citizens .
he will onerous many of vision and of showing for Koreas the moule of the state - nation based on a language , a culture or a religion single .
this vision and this showing have been widely r?compens?es .
to the origin , the Canada , in as that small 1604 little industrialis?e , not jouait no role who him was own in the Affairs global .
to the over of the generations , the Canadians and the delay are devote to create a future better for their families and their communities .
the Canadians and their governments have coolness the obstacles created by the distance and the rigueurs of a climate northern ; they have built a path of railway national and a system of highways , and created a service extend , of the institutions cultural national , of the hospitals , of the universities and of other institutions .
they have in addition created a regime of security social modern .
all these accomplishments constitute the weakened of our quality of life .
in the space of few generations , we are scarce a nation independent , underpinnings of a economy industrial avanc?e , who has Senators to the chapter in the representations international - the Nations overseeing , the G8 , the Organization of cooperation and of development economic , the NATO , and number of other .
when the tyranny mena?ait the peace and the security in the world , the Canadians not have never hesitated to answer to the appeal .
with our boldest former Veterans , we we bravely of those and those who have paid of their life , that this be on the cr?te of Vimy , to Juno Beach , or on lacolline 355 , in Korea .
heirs of the tradition of the coureurs of the lumber , we have explor? the boundaries of the science .
of the intensity of the paper newspaper to the creation of langages computer advanced , the ingenuity of the Canadians has contributed to governance grant era of the information .
through including to the maltreatment of the IGF and to the Prime stimulateur heart , the Canadians have licences to of the million of people to across the world of live better more long .
the Canada has been a pioneer of the use peaceful of the space ; he is became a Leader in the field of the Communications by satellite and in extend of the t?l?d?tection .
today today , our astronautes use the Technology Canadian for help to assembler the CFTO spatiale international , the more great bill scientific of the history .
in a world always more complex , of the approaches , of the skills and of the ideas various are essential for improve the quality of life .
the Canada is a country bilingual where of the men and of the women of a great number of crops , of foster and of religions different involved to the life economic , social and policy .
they puisent in their diversity the force and the creativity who contribute to including a country modern , turned toward the future .
our actions and our history doing that we we sentons to the comfortable in a world dismantling by the change and a interdependence always growing .
the talents of our citizens , the values experienced we are attachment and our showing of work together enable to the Canada of maintain his role of Prime plan in the economy of the know .
today today , the Canadians and the delay can if enorgueillir of the success of their country .
our economy is dynamic , our society is strong and democratic and our fellow are solidaires the each of the other .
we are recognized in the world around for our quality of life .
we b?tirons a better quality of life for the together of the Canadians and of the delay - our children , we - same and our fellow .
a CANADA FORT and UNI
a excellent quality of life for the Canadians and the delay is indissociable of a Canada strong and united .
the government papers a approach overall for strengthen the unity of our country .
all his actions corollary to raffermir the Canada in rehaussant the quality of life of the Canadians .
our regime federal we allows of appreciate to his fair value this who fact the force of each of the regions of our country .
he guarantees the rights and the freedoms of all the citizens .
he r?partit the hampered between all the Canadians , where that they live , of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , in the East , to the British - British , in the Western , in way by our new territory , the Nunavut , in the North .
to the during of the two past Parliaments , the Canadians have looked the bases of a success still more great .
our artists , our writers , our musiciens and our filmmakers doing the admiration of the world around .
and the Canada him - even continues of be a symbol of peace , of democracy and of solidarity human who him worth the respect of the community of the Nations .
order that the future bode of the Canada if inquire for all the citizens , he must insist our efforts for build the better quality of life possible for all the Canadians and delay .
some think that he would preferable of if in go each of his side , rather that of work together .
even if the Quebecers not want not a third referendum , the government of the Quebec continues of speak of in hold a other .
the government of the Canada upholds therefore the commitment that he has took others the Quebecers and all the other Canadians , to know that the principle of lacked statement by the Court Supreme of the Canada will respected .
for that , a showing national , of the strategies national and of the partnerships to the wide of the country all around if impose .
the citizens and the governments must work together for build a Canada still more strong and more united , a Canada who remain a example for the world around .
the Canadians if waiting to this that their government national focuses his efforts in the areas where he can and must be a officer of change .
they want that he the convey to the manner Canadian , this is - to - say in working together , in borders the initiative individuelle and the action government , and in met to the listening of the citizens .
the Canadians and the delay waiting of their government that he continues to do evidence of prudence financial , that he r?duise the burden of the debt , that he falling their taxes and that he terribly in Bill of the political necessary to the contribution of a society strong .
the new market world offer of immense opportunities of create of the jobs for the Canadians and the delay , of stimulate the growth economic of the country and of increase the influence of the Canada in the world .
for improve our quality of life , he we must a strategy overall order of speed the from to the economy of the know , and of promote our interests and our values in the world .
together , we basis in soon of the excellence .
we satisfied cooperate with our partners in the areas following order :
- of see to the healthy of our children and of our young , who will our leaders to the 21 century ;
- of create a economy dynamic ;
- of improve the health and the quality of the care for the Canadians ;
- of ensure the quality of our environment ;
- of build of the communities more strong ;
- of strengthen the relations with the Peoples aboriginal of the Canada ; and
- of expand the role of the Canada in the world .
the ENFANTS and LES JEUNES :
our LEADERS Tabled XXIE SI?CLE
our children
to because of the evolution of the economy World , for interfere of a quality of life high , all the country must rely more that never on a population adaptable , determined and prepared to continue his learning during any his life .
this is soon the unkind boyhood that of such qualities if diversifying .
no commitment that we take today today not will therefore more important for the prosperity and the well - be to long term of the society Canadian that extend of invest our efforts in favour of the very young children .
this are the parents and the families who have the responsibility first of take care of their children .
the society any full must however 9uvrer of together for that our children diversifying the skills necessary to their success .
the government takes of the measures who enable to the parents of advantage of cong?s more extensive for if office of their children , in uphold the application of the benefits of insurance - employment to the payments of the cong?s parentaux and in the skill more availability .
he obey more intermediaries for the families his own political in as that employer and those of the employers subject to the regulatory federal .
through to of other Low tax , he allow to the families with children of have more of money .
with his partners provincial and territorial , he if emploiera to reform the right of the family and to strengthen the plans of support to the families order that , in of the situations of separation or of divorce , priority be given to the needs and to the best interests of the children .
the government federal and of the governments provincial and territorial are to put to the point together the Program of action national for the children .
in the framework of this approach , our objective is of reach of here December 2000 to a agreed between the governments who ups on a plan of action national for help still more the parents and the families .
this plan keeping the Entente - framework on the union social .
he each of the principles , of the objectives and of the benchmarks financial approaches for all the governments order of increase the resources and of raffermir still more the measures of support to the development of the young children .
for help the families to slipping of the graduate of the poverty , the governments federal , provincial and territorial have also established the Prestation national for children .
the government of the Canada is already in considering of invest a amount annual Supplementary of 1.7 billion of $ to the intention of the families to low income with children ; for their share , the provinces and the territories invest in of the services complementary .
the government not means that no family not be constraint of choose between a employment and the benefits for his children .
to this end , he simultaneously a third Investment important in the Prestation national for children of here 2002 , all in if effor?ant of obtain a commitment of his partners provincial and territorial order that they perpetrator their investment in favour of the services to the families with children .
our young
our young are the leaders of tomorrow .
they are already perfectly to the comfortable in the world to branch? to .
they have the energy , the ideas , the know - do technologique , and they want contributing to governance their country to the 21 century .
in a world to branch? to , where the disappear not exist more , the young Canadians diversifying more earlier in their life the knowledge and the skills whose they have need .
the government if emploiera to offer to our young of more major opportunities of participate to the experience Canadian , of discover the splendeurs of their country , of if familiariser directly with each region , and of if let case by this that they discuss learned of their fellow across to the country .
for that , the government takes various measures :
- he will appeal to the skills of the young Canadians order of relier the communities rural and urban to the Highway of the information , in the local for dramatically of the sites additional of access public to Internet ;
- he cr?era a consists of service single - trade Canada - order of give each year the opportunity to per 100,000 young Canadians of in learn on a other region of the country ;
- he if mean that the young Canadians and delay of 13 years and more discuss the fortunate of put to profit their creativity and of create their first 9uvres in using of the approaches traditional and of the technical new in the sectors of the Arts , of the culture , of the Technology hamstrung and of other industries ;
- he incitera of the tens of thousands of young Canadians volunteers to participate to of the bills environmental to the levels community and national and to help of other persons to improve their level of literacy ;
- he allow to the young Canadians of use their energy and their talents addition - sea in participant to of the programs international of worthwhile and in progressive the country in seaway of development to if plug on Internet .
of more , the government continue to give the priority to the Electronic of the information to the young Canadians on the careers , the opportunities of essential of the experience of work and the opportunities of learning .
a Economy DYNAMIQUE POUR LE XXIE SI?CLE
in the economy World of the know , the advantage will to the country who are commensurate , who have of the levels of productivity high , who assumed quickly the technologies the more recent , who invest in the skills of the skills of their citizens and who leads of the new markets in the world around .
the Canadians have built a economy strong and dynamic .
this is the cornerstone cornerstone of our quality of life : she allows to the Canada of continue to governance a society more equitable , to improve the health of his population and to strengthen his communities .
in the space of few years only , the Finance of the state are fellow of the deficits and of the debts to of the Budgets balanced with of low rate of inflation and of interest .
you has modernis? the laws and the regulations and you has reduced the role of the government in the decisions of Affairs .
the government continue to create a environment more goals to the growth economic and to the improvement of the productivity , in reducing the burden of the debt , in abaissant the taxes and in doing of the investment strategic .
these investment treaty the small businesses to grow , encourageront the trade , treaty the citizens to parfaire the cause whose they have need and appointees that the Canada be fresher of a infrastructure modern .
the government is resolved to continue a policy of management financial prudent .
more never he not allow that the you perde the control of the Finance of the state .
he will in sort that the debt falling constantly by report to the product within gross .
he keeping the commitment took to the beginning of this Parliament of spend the half of the surplus budget to the reimbursement of the debt and to the relief of the taxes , and the other half to the investment 118.8 to answer to the needs social and economic of the Canadians .
the reduction of the taxes is a part essential of a strategy designed to increase the income of the special and to build a economy garante of the growth and of the hampered who created the investment public and private necessary for maintain a quality of life high .
in his next budget , the government appear a plan pluriannuel of cuts additional of the taxes .
increase of the trade commercial and of the investment
of all the great country industrialized , this is the Canada who has the economy the more met on the world .
we have the fortunate of be a country whose the population is 13 of people who come of across in the world .
the markets foreign business of new opportunities for our property and our services .
the Investment abroad we amending of the capital , of the ideas and of the technologies new and of the practices trade innovative .
for advantage of the advantage of the Canada , the government intensifies his efforts of promotion of the trade in the sectors strategic appearing of the opportunities of export high - of the sectors transmission of the biotechnologie and of the technologies of the environment and of the information , to the tourism , to the culture and to the health .
he continue also of support the Innovation and the development of new technologies in the major sectors of export such that the agriculture , the agroalimentaire and the resources natural .
he instrument on foot the team Canada Investissement , who allow to all the governments and to the sector private of disseminating their efforts for awareness more the community international to the opportunities exceptional of Investment and of growth to the Canada .
the government winners the framework legislative present for facilitate the facility of the seats social of the businesses deadly to the Canada .
of more , the government commission with his partners of the hemisphere order of establish of here 2005 the Zone of free - Exchange of the Americas .
skills and know necessary to the 21 century
a population active qualifi?e and the ability of innover continually are the pierres of sat of the success of our economy to the 21 century .
to the during of the three past years , the government has established a strategy heartened to exploit the advantage that represents for the Canada a labour - signing Bill who is the more workforce to the world .
he has facility the savings - studies for the children .
he obey the studies coll?giales and academic more affordable through to the scholarships of studies Canadian of the millennium .
he has all?g? the mechanism of reimbursement of the debts ?tudiantes and improved the measures tax Impediment to the funding of the learning participating .
we continue to we support on this strategy .
the government Canadian ship of the partnerships with the other governments , the agencies public and private therefore that with the Canadians and the delay , order of establish a plan of action national in Equity of skills and of learning for the 21 century .
this plan instrument the focus on the learning participating , if tone to the problem of the low literacy home the adults and provide to the citizens the information whose they have need for take of the decisions pressed in view of parfaire their skills .
to the during of the two next years , the government commission with his partners order of :
- allow to the Canadians of fund more nervousness the learning participating ; and
- provide of the information to the wide of the Canada on the markets of the work , the skills necessary and the opportunities of training to departure of a consists single , accessible by Internet , by telephone , or in human in all the communities of the country .
the government instrument also the focus on the recruitment , the keeping in position and the learning Standing to the service public of the Canada , order that she remains strong , fundamental , professional , not partisan and able of provide to the Canadians and to the delay the services of the more high quality to the or?e of the 21 century .
the infrastructure of the 21 century
for enable this objective , he met create of new types of infrastructure .
the infrastructure of the know
for improve his infrastructure of the know , the Canada must support a new generation of leaders , draw the researchers the more qualified and encourage his graduates to exercise their talents here to the country .
the government appear a bill of bill allowing the creation of the instituts Canadian of research in health .
those - side ouvriront the seaway to of the business of counting world to the Canada , because they meeting for the first time all the researchers of the sector of the health , in the purpose of define of the priorities Commons for the research .
this approach innovatrice recognizes the importance of the cooperation in the field of the research for improve the health and the well - be of the Canadians , and governance a regime of care of health of very great quality .
the government of the Canada is since of many years the a of the major soutiens of the research in the universities Canadian .
since two years , the government fear a ambitious program designed to better support the research of forefront to the Canada .
for this do , he :
- foster his support to the advice granting , their allowing of establish of new partnerships with the universities order of draw the best researchers of the world in the framework of a program breaking , the chaires of excellence in research of the 21 century ;
- encouragera the universities and the instituts of research of the Canada to modern the cooperation international in Equity of research and to increase the know - do Canadian in of the sectors as the g?nomique , the changes El and the genius carried ; and
- facilitera the marketing of the new products and services developed to the point through to of the business of research in the universities and the centres of research Government .
the government ups also to this that he gave a ability modern and effective in Equity of research and of Science to the within of the Administration public , for promote the health , the security and the well - be economic of the Canadians .
the infrastructure of the information
for support the flow of the ideas and the trade commercial in of the networks computer , for plug the Canadians to the Highway of the information and speed the ushered of the trade Electronic , the Canada need improve his infrastructure of the information .
to this end , the government :
- takes of the measures for do of the Canada a centre of excellence in trade Electronic and encourage his use in the together of the economy ;
- appear to new a bill of bill designed to protect the information personal and commercial in the networks electronic and to recognize the signatures electronic ; and
the government become a user model of the technologies of the information and of Internet .
we we jobs of a bill pilot in during for do of the site www . acces . gc
the economy of the know not is not the simple product of the businesses of high Technology .
this is a economy in which all the sectors and all the industries if contemplated of use the technologies and the tactical of forefront .
in effect , this economy allows of give more of stability against the graduate of the market to of the regions , rural particularly , where the industries Italiano on the resources - agriculture , fisheries , foresterie , mines , tourism - are the sources main of the hampered .
the government encouragera the implementation to the point and the Adopted of new technologies in all the sectors .
the infrastructure cultural
the force of the Canada find root in his rich diversity .
writers , buffoons , extravaganza , filmmakers and artists limited life to our culture during that of other consignent our history and guarding our heritage cultural .
he instrument in line the collections of the Archives national , of the Library national and of other institutions key .
the infrastructure mat?rielle
the Canada need in addition continue to improve his infrastructure mat?rielle to the 21 century .
order of modern the trade and of stimulate the growth economic , we must we ensure that we have the ability of move the persons and the property of way Motor and effective .
for maintain the quality of life in our cities and our communities rural , we must preserve the puret? of the air and of the water .
the government commission of together with the other levels of government and the sector private for subtly - of here the end of the year 2000 - of a plan mindful designed to improve the infrastructure mat?rielles in the areas urban and in the regions rural of the country .
the health and LES SOINS ' QUALIT? POUR LES CANADIENS
the health and of the care of quality are essential to the well - be of all the Canadians and delay ; they constitute the a of our great atouts in the context present of the globalization of the markets .
the progress earned in the areas of the Technology , of the research and of the information we criticism of new prospects tremendous for improve the health and the well - be of the citizens .
the Canadians if waiting to this that their governments working of together for ensure that the system of health of the Canada remains modern and viable .
the government has recently confirmed his commitment to the regard of the regime of care of health in readily 11,5 billion of $ of more for the modernize in view of the 21 century .
he continue to go of the before with his partners provincial and territorial and the sector of the health for do current the priorities Commons .
with his partners , the government independent the implementation to the unequalled of innovations in Equity of Benefit int?gr?e of the services , including in of the areas such the care to home and the insurance - pharmacare , in the purpose of establish a system of health whose all the components fonctionneront of way harmonieuse .
a system modern of information on the health occasionally to the professionals of the health and to the citizens the access to the information the more to day on the issues of the hour and on the treatment existing .
the government ups to this that the citizens of all the regions of the country shifted access to this information for that they taking of the decisions better pressed .
the government belonging the health of the Canadians in renfor?ant his program of specifications of the foods , in conclusion of the measures additional for resolve the problems of health related to the environment , there included the risks sanitaires potential that arise the pesticides , and in modernisant the protection of the health in General in a world in evolution .
we continue in addition to study the serious problems of health in the communities aboriginal and we speaking the efforts of these past designed to promote their well - be and to strengthen the Benefit of the services of health .
the QUALIT? ' NOTRE ENVIRONNEMENT
the well - be to long term of each Canadian and CIBC on the plan social and economic depends of the state of the environment natural .
our ability of adopt of the practices and of the technologies Environmental innovative become of more in more a other asset of size for the Canada to the 21 century .
the Canadians recognize since long the links who exist between a environment widest and their quality of life .
of the citizens Canadian and of the businesses copies if contemplated already , to the within of their own communities , of protect the environment natural in repoussant the limits of the technologies Environmental , in uphold the prospects open by those - side and in exploitant the new practices Environmental .
the quality of the environment in our communities is also linked to the state of the environment of the other communities of the world .
only a intervention concerted to the wide World allow of resolve the problems as the changes El and the dangers associated to the presence in the environment of marine toxic r?manentes .
to the Canada , the government commission with the other levels of government and with the citizens for meet the commitment that has took our country , in under of the Protocol of Kyoto , of reduce the shows of gas to effect of greenhouse .
the government d?finira and apply of the standards antipollution tougher , in particular for better protect the health of the children , of the persons seniors and of the population of the North .
he instrument still more the focus on the development sustainable in the framework of his process of decision .
he if tone also to the weaknesses structurelles d?cel?es in the system of management of the marine toxic .
on the scene international , the Canada provide a support technical for help the country in development to adopt of the practices classes .
the government carrying of the bills of bill and of the programs of management , collaborant with the provinces and the territories for ensure to this that the cash endangered and the unlikely whose they have need ensure protected .
the government continue also of expand the system of parks national of the Canada .
in his own activities , the government if address as model of excellence environmental .
he Glenney more for d?polluer the sites federal contaminated .
he reinforces his ability scientific of research in the sector of the environment .
he councilors also of new technologies of Municipality .
the government appear of the reports service on the results achieved for answer to the major concerns Environmental of the Canadians and of the delay .
Peoples COLLECTIVIT?S PLUS FORTES
work together
of all time , the Canadians have known if coalesce order of advantage of the opportunities who if overemphasized to them and of met the challenges .
this commitment to work together - took by the Canadians , their governments and their communities - will allow to the Canada of continue to succeed opposite to the issues complex of the 21 century .
she commitment also the governments to eliminate the obstacles who entravent of way not valid the mobility of the citizens to the within of the Canada .
these obstacles incluent the rules who doing that some credentials not are not recognized when a citizen if installe in a other province , that of the students not can use their loans when they examining to the outside of their province , and that of the services essential are sometimes tracking to some citizens - there included those who have of the handicaps - in reason of their province of origin .
the government of the Canada is resolved to work with his partners for meet the deadlines determined in the Entente - framework on the union social , in under prompted all the obstacles injustifi?s to the mobility will semiconductors to the more later in 2002 .
in 2001 , the Canadians and the delay souligneront the Year international of the volunteers , in artist the accomplishments of these heroes of our life daily .
the government recognizes that he important of establish of the partnerships with the communities and of renew his relationship with the agencies volunteers who the help and the argue .
he conclura a agreed national with the sector volunteer , lineups therefore the bases new of a partnership dynamic with of the organizations who are to the service of the Canadians and of the delay .
for be strong , the communities must power rely on the full participation of all their members .
the government shall therefore his efforts deposited of the other governments , of the sector private , of the agencies volunteers and of all the citizens for build of the communities to the within prompted will fully included the Canadians having of the handicaps , and where the new Canadians if jaded home them .
in addition , the government continue to work of together with his partners in all the sectors for if attack to the causes deep to the origin of the situation of the without - homeless and for help the communities to answer to the needs of their members , between other in Equity of housing .
promote of the communities more seemingly
the Canadians are to fair payments proud of have created of the communities where the citizens if feel in security .
he if is of a part key of the quality of life and of a factor who contributes to the advantage competitive of the Canada .
the government collaborera with the Canadians for that our communities remain seemingly .
he commission of manner balanced , in combinant of a share a approach represents on the prevention and the action community and , of other share , of the measures presided to combat the crime serious .
he ?largira the strategy community of prevention of the crime , and appear to new a bill of bill for reform the system of justice for the young .
the government luttera against the Control of the stup?fiants all in progressive the communities to attend the victims .
he lancera a program of justice restorative who help the victims to if back of their traumatismes and occasionally to the offenders not violent the opportunity of contributing to drama the torts that they have occur .
the government if councilors to refute the new threats who planent on the Canadians and on their neighbours in the world .
he shall his fight against the crime , who if practice of more in more to the wide World , whose the laundering of money , the terrorism and the networks criminals of Immigration ill?gale , the smuggling of the stup?fiants and of the weapons .
the government reinforces the means whose lags the RCMP and of other agencies for struggle against the threats to the security public to the Canada and cooperate with the agencies competent of other country .
he winners in addition the laws for better ensure the security public .
of more , the government of the Canada continue to work closely with the government of the States - United for modernize our border common in view of the 21 century .
strengthen LES RELATIONS AVEC LES PEUPLES AUTOCHTONES OF CANADA
the contribution of the Peoples aboriginal of the Canada has model? our heritage and continue of enrich our country to the during of the next century .
the government continue of if support on the strong basic of reconciliation and of renewal widest in Strength our forces : the plan of action of the Canada for the questions aboriginal .
we ?difions now of the partnerships more solid with the aboriginal , in concentrant our efforts on the improvement of their conditions of life and , of more in more , on the strengthening of their economies .
the Peoples aboriginal will therefore in legislation of participate and of contributing more closely to the development economic of the Canada and to the well - be of the society .
the fact of promote the principle of good government and the accountability in the communities of the First Nations increase the confidence of the investors , independent the partnerships economic and improve the conditions of life .
the agreements of regulation of the claims land , in particular , are of the elements essential for engender the certainty whose the aboriginal and the communities materials have need ; they duplication a climate goals to the partnerships , to the investment and to the growth economic .
to the beginning of the new session of the Parliament , the government appear a bill of bill rigour in Bill the agreed historic with the Nisga' has .
the PLACE OF CANADA DANS LE MONDE
to the enter of the 21 century , the Canada is well opportunity for show the seaway who fear to a world more course .
the Canadians have today today the better quality of life to the world because that they if are busy of the needs of the individuals .
we poss?dons the experience ongoing for put of the before a program improved designed the security human in the purpose of protect the Communities civilian against the threats who planent on their rights , their security and their life .
on the scene international , we have the reputation of contribute a contribution single , that this be through to our contribution to the Elimination of the mines land , to the efforts of the NATO and of the Nations overseeing to the Kosovo , to the assistance to the development in Asia and in Africa , to the creation of the Tribunal p?nal international or to the renewal of the system financial international .
the Canadians and the delay recognize that their quality of life is in part linked of similar of their neighbours , those with who they shared the planet .
a world where the persons are in security is a world where least of people have to fuir their home , where he there has least of crime and of terrorism , and where he there has least of risks associated to the illness and to the pollution .
the government treated a importance increased to the security human in his policy foreign and he 9uvrera for that the representations global green of the progress enemies in the framework of a approach international for the security human .
the Assembly general of the Nations overseeing incorporated in 2001 a session extraordinary Authorize on the children .
in the spirit of the partnership who has led to the treaty historic of ban of the mines land , the government commission in view of adopt of the agreements international key for protect the rights of the children .
the Canada if will the champion of the efforts designed to abolish the exploitation of the children , including in this who respect their use as soldiers during of conflict armed , and help to do opposite to the tragedy of the children victims of the HIV and of the AIDS .
the government Glenney in addition of together with of the country partageant the same inception for reform and strengthen of the institutions multilateral as the Nations overseeing , the Fund Monetary international , the Bank World and the Organization World of the trade .
he if apply also to define a new approach international for support the diversity cultural in the world .
for confirm the leadership of the Canada in the Arctic , the government esquissera a policy foreign for the North designed to improve the cooperation , protect the environment , promote the trade and the Investment and support the security of the population of the region .
the government foster his assistance international to the development and commission of way creative for help the country poor to improve the quality of life of their citizens .
the government continue also of ensure to this that the Forces Canadian ensure in legislation of support the role of the Canada for contributing to the security in the world and he if efforcera of increase the ability of the Canadians and of the delay of help to ensure the peace and the security in of the country foreign .
duties Question PROMESSE OF CANADA POUR LE XXIE SI?CLE
to the time of celebrate the changeover of the new millennium , we can look our past with pride and consider the future with confidence .
to the namely of the generations who we have predecessors , we happen opposite to of new challenges .
but through to our values and to our experience collective , we can do in sort that the Canada rest the better country of the world for his population - the held ideal for rise of the children , learn , exploit the opportunities , if join to of the communities rich , diversified and safety and Terms the beauty of the nature .
all the Canadians - each citizen , each government , each business and each body community - have a role to play for ensure the future of the Canada .
we b?tirons the 21 century together .
aspect and Messieurs the members ,
you received called to vote the appropriation necessary for fund the services and the Estimates approved by the Parliament .
honourable senators and s?natrices ,
aspect and Messieurs the members ,
in as that representatives of the population Canadian of a coast to the other , you have a duty Special , a responsibility more great of continue the excellence to the service of your country .
he must that the Canadians and the delay of tomorrow carry say , in considering the present Parliament , that he if counsellors of men and of women profoundly to build a Canada more strong and a better quality of life for their children and their grandchildren - children .
can the Divine providence you guide in your deliberations .
the House of the Commons if withdrew .
he pleasure to His Excellency the Gouverneure general of if withdraw .
the Senate resumed his sitting .
bill of bill regarding the Railway of railway
first Reading
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) presented the bill of bill S - 1 , Act regarding the Railway of railway .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
the speech of the Throne
study to the next sitting
his Hon. the Speaker :
of the Senators :
enough !
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when this speech will he developed to the study ?
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) move :
that the speech of the Throne that His Excellency the Gouverneure general has sir today today before the two Houses of the Parliament be developed to the study to the next sitting of the Senate .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Committee of selection
appointment
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) move :
that , pursuant to the subsection 85 ( 1 ) of the Rules , the senators Atkins , Austin , DeWare , Fairbairn , Grafstein , Kinsella , Kirby , Mercier and Murray make a Committee of selection responsible of designate has ) a Senator who discharge the Speaker to payments of Speaker pro tempore ; and b ) the senators who will members of the various committees special during the presented session .
his Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
not .
( the motion is agreed with division . )
( the Senate if adjourned to 14 p.m. tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 2
the Wednesday 13 October 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
the Gouverneure general
Appendix in Printed of the programme prononc?es during of the facility
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau , C
tributes to the opportunity of his appointment to the Senate
' ' '
the week without violence of the YM
the Senate
congratulations to the staff for the good work of preparedness of the facility of the Gouverneure general and of the Reading of the speech of the Throne
the agriculture
the hemp industrial - Changes obstacles to the export toward the States - United
questions of privilege
visitors of Gallery
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
the Committee of selection
Presented of the Prime report
Presented of the second report
bill of bill admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical
first Reading
transport and Communications
notice of motion Authorize referred to the Committee of the ascertain took in under of the Act on the transport to the Canada for Authorize the held of discussions on the proposal of Purchase of Air Canada by the sector private
Affairs foreign
notice of motion Authorize Authorized to the Committee of examine the amendment embraced to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
the Summit of the Francophonie
notice of inquiry
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape
the possible of bills for help the miners to meet the conditions of Eligibility to the Program of expressions to the retirement lead - Position Position of the government
the environment
the Nova - Nova - Position responsibility of the timetables of the sites of wastes toxic
the Defence national
the transport
the principles of the payment by the polluters , of the prevention of the pollution and of the Elimination step of the products chemical toxic - Position Position of the government
the agriculture
the effectiveness of the programs designed to help the farmers
Affairs Affairs
notice of motion designed to Authorize the Committee to study the consequences of the Union Monetary European
Order OF orders
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Ajournementdu debate
the adjournment
questions of privilege
decision of the Speaker
referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure
decision of the Speaker
referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure
the SENATE
the Wednesday 13 October 99
the sitting is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker met to the Chair .
prayers .
Appendix in Printed of the programme prononc?es during of the facility
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I move :
that the remarks of the Prime Minister of the Canada , the very hon. Jean tien , C , executing during of the facility of the very hon. Chairwoman Clarkson as Gouverneure general of the Canada the 7 October 99 , and the response of His Excellency the Gouverneure general to this remarks ensure votes in Printed to the Journals of the Senate of this day and constitute part integral of the refrain of this House .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the text of the programme found to the Printed , p
37 )
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau , C
tributes to the opportunity of his appointment to the Senate
the hon. B . Alasdair Graham :
honourable senators , the 11 June 1997 , I have been asserment? to the Council private of the Canada in quality of Leader of the government to the Senate .
I have said this day - there that my objective Prime was of do the necessary for that I respectful replaced to the first opportunity .
in fact , I have officially said that I was without doubt the only human to the cabinet federal who limited of the efforts for leave his employment .
I not known not many of political who carry if targuer of have reached their objective and accomplished their task in half least of time that he not in must .
the Senator Boudreau is not only a friend staff of long date , this is also a friend of the family since of many years .
therefore , when Bernie if is presented to the won to the leadership of our party in Nova - Nova , this is a of my son who was his steering of campaign .
to the during of the two past years , the Senator Boudreau and Jack have been associated to the within of the even cabinet of lawyers .
honourable senators , I me request if he would exaggeration of say that , there where the son has failed , the father has succeeded , of way enough d?tourn?e , must - he the clarify , to do advance the career policy of the Senator Boudreau .
however , the Senator Boudreau is all to fact able of express his own point of view and of if do argue .
as in the sectors private that public , he has known gain the respect of many Canadians of the Nova - Nova or of elsewhere .
before and after his stay to the Assembly legislative of the Nova - Nova , the Senator Boudreau if is d?marqu? in the practice of the right to Sydney and to Halifax .
in quality of Minister of the Finance and , certified , of Minister of the Health , he has found the need , as this is the case in the radio of the provinces and of the country , of take of the decisions very difficult .
Senator Boudreau , you finirez by understand , as this was my case , that this is a great honour and a rare privilege of sit to the within of the cabinet and of discuss freely of the questions br?lantes of today , that they ensure of Order regional , national or international .
all these discussions comma prospective our concern common to the regard of the well - be of the population of our Nova - Nova well - rock .
in quality of Minister regional , you seen to met of many challenges and , in this context therefore that in the framework of all the other questions that you someday address as Leader of the government to the Senate , you 53,000 rely on my full cooperation .
you find that sit in this House some of the penseurs the more outstanding and of the parliamentarians the more dedicated to the world .
I have been to even of see that , in the framework of the challenges that they have to met , our colleagues sells to profit of the qualities very grievous , of the experiences unique in their kind , of the careers successful and a wonderful Ethics of the work .
to my notice , they shared the feelings of Edward Blake , a former member who has said he there has more of a century in a speech sir to the House of the Commons :
the privileges of the Parliament are the privileges of the people , the rights of the Parliament are the rights of the people .
to the eve of a new century , these words we recall a tradition whose we have inherited - a tradition inchang?e to this day - and a privilege that very little of between we have the fortunate of stature .
this is the wonderful privilege of serve the population .
this that we do here , we the do for the population of our province , of our region and of our country .
to the during of the ninety - seven years that I have fellow to the Senate , all the bills of bill who have been reticent the have been by need and they have therefore been therefore am?lior?s .
all the studies who have been businesses have brought someone something of Special to of the segments of our society .
this is a privilege for we of you rely in our enough , and still a time , we you wish the more cordiale of the questionable .
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I me getting always a happy of welcome to the behalf of the Opposition a new Senator , but I the getting always in pr?sumant that we going all benefit of the experience and of the training of the new came until to this that the age of the retirement required the force to departure .
the Senator Boudreau is the Prime Senator who , before even of have been asserment? , gave announced that the length of his stay among we not will not more long that this that he rest of the mandate of the government present .
hence who me place in a dilemma .
I want add to the Senator Boudreau a long and reinforce stay here , but in even time , I hope , as many of other , that the time that the government present remain to the power will also short that possible .
in reality , I me anyway to thinking that after few months only , the Senator fewer that the work accomplished here is more productive and least partisan that to the other place and that he cite can - be well review his decision of if r?trograder when the next election will there .
only the time the tell .
between - time , he accept a challenge difficult , who the is became still more to because of the model established by his predecessor immediate , whose the urbanit? and the civility not have never been many implemented to the unequalled and confirm?es that during of the last days and in his intervention of today today .
today today , I me outline of add to the Senator Boudreau the better of the opportunity in his new duties , and I the congratulate of the choice of his Leader Deputy .
the Senator Hays stellar of the respect General of the senators of the two sides of the House and amending to his new duties 15 years of participation active to the business of the Senate .
' ' '
the week without violence of the YM
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I rise today today for you attention that the week next , of the 17 to the 23 October , if incorporated the Week without violence of the YM .
he if is of a campaign international who has of first been implementation on foot by the YM to the States - United in 1995 , but who if is quickly relates to more of 20 country , whose the Canada , the Australia , the Ghana , the Uruguay and the Zimbabwe .
the Prime objective of the campaign is of find of the solutions to all the forms of violence .
to the during of the Week without violence , the YM and the YMCA - YM of all the communities to the Canada , of together with the schools , the forces police , the groups community and the sponsors , organiseront various activities kitchens for encourage the Canadians to find of the solutions to the violence to which they doing opposite daily .
each day of the week is basic to a theme particular having relates to the violence .
the 18 October , parents and children apprendront how avoid the situations of violence .
the 19 October , you if tighten on the means of pay our schools more safety .
the Wednesday 20 October , you examine how do opposite to the violence others the women .
the Thursday 21 October the YM sensibilisera all the Canadians to the impact of the outraged , of the stress and of the abuse in the life of the men and on their relations .
the Friday 22 October , you call the attention on the racism and the crimes led by the haine , and on their link with the violence .
finally , the Saturday 23 October , you failing how replace the violence by of the activities positive , such that the sport , the pursuits and the Arts .
honourable senators , I you invite all and each to take share to these activities .
the Senate
congratulations to the staff for the good work of preparedness of the facility of the Gouverneure general and of the Reading of the speech of the Throne
the hon. Bill Rompkey :
honourable senators , the Senate has recently been the scene of two events very important in the life of our country .
I have attended several time to of such events , but they not if were never d?roul?s also well .
this was the first time that she officiait to a such event and I am of notice that she there has left his Gallery .
by his through , I like also pay tribute to his employees who , with those of the Senate , have worked later in the night for see to all the details and if ensure that all if snapshots of a manner also excellent .
the agriculture
the hemp industrial - Changes obstacles to the export toward the States - United
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I rise today today the speak order of draw the attention of the Senate on the situation to which are currently confront?es a society and a young industry Canadian .
Kenex Limited , to Chatham , in Ontario , is in considering of become the a of the more great producers and transformateurs of hemp industrial .
however , the Administration of the customs and of the repression of the drugs of the States - United has recently developed that in calling .
I have took conscience of the problem after have wrote in September to several of my contacts in the sector of the hemp industrial , order of me enqu?rir on the crops of this year .
the response that I have received of the share of Jean lawyer , chairman of Kenex , not has not been similar that I intended .
Mr. . lawyer me has brought a assistance considerable when I have began to me office of the bill of bill on the hemp industrial .
he me is then wished obvious that the market American component a good reason for that you allows the culture of the hemp industrial to the Canada .
well that the market American for the products of hemp gross and ran be very important , the States - United have long banned the culture of the hemp industrial , of sort that , during of the years , the market has d?pendu of the worth of the abroad .
recently , several States have adopted of the laws encouraging the culture of the hemp industrial - whose Hawaii , the Dakota of the North and the Minnesota .
a time that a grower takes a share of the market , he has trend to maintain this advantage downpayment ; he belongs therefore to our producers Canadian of take and of maintain their share of market before that the Americans not if the approprient .
the market American represents realistic per of the figure of Affairs of Kenex .
the a of his clients , a society whose the figure of Affairs is of 2 billion of $ by year , using since of the years of the seeds of hemp revenues of China for his m?langes .
the chargement of seeds for bird that Kenex has delivered in August to this society has been before by the customs U.S. .
this chargement was informed of documents confirmant his rudimentary and the analysis of the THC .
the seeds for bird are of the to seeds of hemp st?rilis?es to , who not are not a substance r?glement?e , what that be their substance in THC .
the seeds of hemp of Kenex are all to fact legal to the eyes of the bill Canadian .
they concepts least of 0,001p. per , or a part by per 100,000 , of THC .
the bill Canadian allows until to 0.3 per of THC in the seeds st?rilis?es .
Mr. . lawyer has said :
he is impossible of find of the amounts of THC in our products to least that the laboratory not be ?quip? for commissioned of the tests of presence of THC until to a part by million , and still there , you not can find of the amounts of THC in the most of our products .
Cynthia H . Thielen , MP of the state of Hawaii to the House of the representatives , has officially brought his support to Kenex Limited and has criticized openly the participation of the Administration American of the repression of the drugs to the cases of the products of Kenex .
honourable senators , I believe know that the Department of the Affairs foreign and of the Trade international if circumstances on the file and I will follow of almost his evolution .
I hope that we regards very soon of good new to announce to the farmers Canadian .
questions of privilege
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , pursuant to the subsection 43 ( 7 ) of the Rules of the Senate of the Canada , I give today today notice that I soul?verai a question of privilege to the about of the disclosure not Cabinet of drafts of a report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal .
you noterez that this question of privilege has been raised to the last session .
according the decision decided by our Speaker , the case party be referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges and of the Rules .
I the raises of new to the following of the prorogation and I wishes the address to the time timely .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I raises a question of privilege who has relates to the experiences economically by a witness who has appeared before a of our committees Standing .
to the time timely more later in the day , pursuant also 43 ( 7 ) of the Rules , I traiterai in detail of this case .
visitors of Gallery
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I draw your attention on the presence to the gallery of a delegation of the Republic popular democratic of Korea .
Mr. . Cha Jong is Leader of office to the Institute of the Affairs international , Mr. Li Song Man is administrator to the Institute of the Affairs international , bearer Ri Kwang Nam is Prime Secretary to the mission permanent of the Republic popular democratic of Korea to the Nations Nations .
the delegation is the forward of the hon. Senator Marcel homme man , C
to the behalf of all the honourable senators , I you wish the welcome to the Senate Canadian .
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
the Committee of selection
Presented of the Prime report
the hon. L?once Mercier , chairman of the Committee of selection , presented the report following :
the Wednesday 13 October 99
the Committee of selection has the honour of present his
Prime REPORT
pursuant to the section 85 ( 1 ) b ) of the Rules of the Senate , your Committee presented the list of the senators that he has act for do part of the Committee particular following :
COMIT? PERMANENT PERIOD transport and PERIOD COMMUNICATIONS
the honourable senators Adams , Bacon , * Boudreau ( or Hays ) , Callbeck , Finestone , Forrestall , Johnson , Kirby , LeBreton , * Staunton - Lynch ( or Kinsella ) , Perrault , Poulin , Roberge and Spivak .
* member of board
respectfully submitted ,
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when taken - we this report ?
the Senator Mercier :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , I move that the report be adopted soon now .
his Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he of adopt the motion , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
not .
( on the motion of the Senator Mercier , the study of the report is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting of the Senate . )
Presented of the second report
the hon. L?once Mercier , chairman of the Committee of selection , presented the report following :
the Wednesday 13 October 99
the Committee of selection has the honour of present his
second REPORT
pursuant to the section 85 ( 1 ) b ) of the Rules of the Senate your Committee presented the list of the senators that he has act for do part of the Committee particular following :
COMIT? PERMANENT PERIOD Affairs Affairs
the honourable senators Andreychuk , Atkins , Bolduc , * Boudreau ( or Hays ) , Carney , Corbin , De De , Di Nino , Grafstein , Lewis , Losier - Losier , * Staunton - Lynch ( or Kinsella ) , Stewart and Stollery .
* member of board
respectfully submitted ,
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when taken - we this report ?
the Senator Mercier :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , I move that the report be adopted soon now .
his Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he of adopt the motion , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
not .
( on the motion of the Senator Mercier , the study of the report is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting of the Senate . )
bill of bill admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical
first Reading
the hon. Sharon Carstairs presented the bill of bill S - 2 , Act admissibility the taken of decisions Medical legitimate relatively to the treatment of survival and to the treatment of the pain .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Carstairs , the second lecturedu bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the mardi26 October 99 . )
transport and Communications
notice of motion Authorize referred to the Committee of the ascertain took in under of the Act on the transport to the Canada for Authorize the held of discussions on the proposal of Purchase of Air Canada by the sector private
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I move :
that , pursuant to the subsection 47 ( 5 ) of the Act on the transport to the Canada , the ascertain tabled before this House , the 14 September 99 , Authorize some carriers Threat unambiguous and some persons to negotiate and to conclude any agreement naively , be obedience to the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications ;
that the Committee heard , between other witnesses , the Minister of the Transport ;
that the Committee be authorized to allow the Electronic Electronic of his deliberations public ; and
that the Committee presented his report final to the pus later 15 December 99 .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I think that he there has a problem .
in effect , the Committee not is not still set since the Senate not has not still given his Authorized .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
he if is only of a notice .
his Hon. the Speaker :
I me in defer to you , honourable senators .
the leave is - she granted ?
the Senator Hays :
your Hon. , this is a notice regarding a motion whose we traiterons to the next sitting of the Senate .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , if he if is of a notice regarding a motion whose we traiterons to the next sitting , the approval of the Senate not is not necessary .
Affairs foreign
notice of motion Authorize Authorized to the Committee of examine the amendment embraced to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I give notice that to the next sitting , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign be authorized to examine for in do report the ramifications for the Canada :
2 . of the keeping of the peace , particularly the ability of the Canada of there participate under the auspices of not important what body international whose the Canada fact part .
that the Crosbie received and the evidence heard on the question by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign during the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament ensure An to the Committee ;
that the Committee be authorized to sit during the sittings and the cong?s of the Senate ;
that the Committee be authorized to allow the Electronic Electronic of his deliberations public ; and
that the Committee presented his report final to the more later 18 November 99 .
the Summit of the Francophonie
notice of inquiry
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , I give notice that the 21 October next , I call the attention of the Senate on the recent Summit of the Francophonie held to Moncton in September last .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape
the possible of bills for help the miners to meet the conditions of Eligibility to the Program of expressions to the retirement lead - Position Position of the government
the hon. John Buchanan :
honourable senators , before of ask my question , I like add the welcome to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the life is strange .
the last time that I have sat in a House with the Senator Boudreau , I occupais the seat in opposite of the fun .
I was sitting of the side of the part government in as that Prime Minister and he was of the side of the Opposition .
I am happy that we we end in the even Position , except that the roles are overthrow .
I account well work with the hon. Senator during of long years .
he is possible that he be of this side - there during few years , but after the next election federal , this will me who si?gerai of this side - there and him of this side - side .
I am a man very sympathetic , and the hon. Senator Boudreau the knows .
I like ask to the Leader of the government to the Senate a question on a about who him keeps to heart and who me keeps to heart since of many years .
that has relates to the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape , the Devco .
I know that the hon. Senator commission also strong that the Senator Graham for defend the Devco , of the least I the hope .
my question if quoted to the situation to the mine of coal of Phalen .
you is in considering of d?monter the line of belt and the levels lower of the mine .
the miners francophile that the branch Superior of the mine of Phalen not will not damaged , because you there find still approximately 7,5 million of tonnes of coal whose between 5 and 6 million of tonnes of coal r?cup?rable in the sectors 1A west , 2A west , 1QZ , 2QZ , therefore that 1Y and 2Y .
the United Moon Allied of America and the other unions represented to the Devco francophile that the government federal overcome good of the let exploit the mine to the during of the next years , order that the miners carry work a number sufficient of years for have right to their pension to the end of the period of two years .
words , the mine will closed and the workers not discuss not right to their pension .
the Leader of the government to the Senate raise he , soon that possible , this question with the Prime Minister , order that the miners carry continue of work to the mine of coal of Phalen and of exploit these 5 to 6 million of tonnes of coal r?cup?rable ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator for his question .
as the hon. Senator we the has if well reminded , we have already lived a situation similar , except that I Chronicle the questions and that he connecting the Questions .
the Senator Buchanan :
this is exactly , and you obteniez always the good response .
the Senator Boudreau :
the hon. Senator find can - be the situation current more pleasant .
before of answer to the question of the hon. Senator , I like comment the comments made all to the hour .
this is with many of humility that I have agreed the responsibilities who me have been confi?es , of many more that my predecessor the has assumed of way remarkable .
I wishes of elsewhere the in thank to the behalf of the Senate and of the population of the Canada .
honourable senators , I have also been very affected by the words of welcome and the advice that me has easier the Leader of the Opposition , who me has proposed , between other , of reconsidered the length of my stay to this v?n?rable institution that is the Senate .
I him attention that , to this about , he has the support total of my wife .
in response to the question raised by the hon. Senator Buchanan , I Albertan that the Devco will to the centre of my concerns during any the length of my mandate present .
we know all two the file since a period considerable .
he fact currently the subject of a approach in two steps .
the first introducing to find a solution hon. for the resources human who working in this sector since of many years .
this question transpires a great importance not only for these people , but also for all the senators and for the government of the Canada .
the other step , well course , introducing to promote the development economic for help the community to if adapt to the transition in during .
human not knows better that the Senator who has asked the question that he if is there of a admired transition between a economy industrial who is linked of a single employer and a economy post - industrial .
a such transition not is never easy .
in this who respect the question proprement quote , I attention course this concern .
I pretend however that the approach who intended to transfer the resources to a exploitant of the sector private is in during .
all the world seems if hear for say that he if Glenney of the better way of rectify to the situation .
if the resources houill?res can be incorporated and exploited surely , effectively and economically , I am sure that the new exploitant of the sector private examine the proposal very seriously .
the Senator Buchanan :
honourable senators , I not speak not of the privatization .
I have my own opinion to this regard .
the problem that pose the 5 to 6 million of tonnes of coal r?cup?rable , this is that , if the leadership of Devco sphere to remove the line of belt until to the sections higher of the houill?re Phalen and beyond - beyond , he risk of be too later for that a exploitant of the sector private can selective this coal .
if a exploitant of the sector private establishing to the do , this is very well , but he met then that the miners who expect this work to the during of the two next years carry be always eligible to the benefits of retirement .
as the hon. Senator the knows , with the closure of the mine Phalen , a great number of miners not are not including in the formula regarding the program of expressions to the retirement lead .
the mine Phalen has assuring before that human not gave arisen his closure and this is the problem who we nat currently .
I like also questions the Senator to the about of the someone 1 160 miners who will affected by the closure of the mine Phalen .
the process of ?vincement has already began with the houill?re Prince .
the men who have been displaced when the mine Phalen has assuring and those who if roles of the maintenance of this mine have ?vinc? the workers of the houill?re Prince , whose approximately 250 have received their notice of implementation to foot .
when you add these men - side to the other , that fact someone 1 per miners who not receive no Benefit of retirement , there including those who have 20 years of rotunda , but who not are not enough seniors for have 75 points .
I find that very unfair and this is this that find also the chairman and the members of the executive of the United Moon Allied .
he must find a average for pay these people - there eligible to the Program of expressions to the retirement lead .
a bill is possible and this would very simple .
of the senators not know not that a enormous operation of Municipality if imposes to the Devco .
the even something worth for the Sydney Steel Corporation , if he if product someone something there - lower .
the prospect to the Devco poorest approximately 150 million of $ .
this program is considered to the hour current as to strong density not not of labour - signing Bill , but of equipment .
I request to the new Minister of address the question the more earlier possible with the Prime Minister .
be said in way , to the during of the campaign election provincial in Nova - Nova , the Prime Minister has advocates a letter to Ms Edna Budden and to the women of the miners their saying that he ask to the officials of the Department of examine all the aspects of the Program of expressions to the retirement lead .
I know if he the has fact , but that must be fact for that these men not ensure not all simply caught for account .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , as not the know not the Senator , the program launched by the government has been doubly affected by the closure premature of the mine .
of first , of the people who number had right to the Program of expressions to the retirement lead , because that they had reached the rotunda necessary , not have not could there have access to because of the closure premature of similar - side .
they have lost the time additionnel whose they had need for if described and have therefore been affected very directly .
then , the program has also been affected because that the society continued on the income who would been concerted by the exploitation of the mine for this period .
to because of these two consequences of the closure premature of the mine , the government has esteemed necessary of examine the program who had been proposed he there has someone time to the miners and to their families .
this review is always in during .
I have good confidence that we able do someone something for improve the situation , in particular for the groups whose we critical of speak and who have been directly affected by the closure premature of the mine .
I hope that the Prime Minister and the ministers involved able find a solution to this case .
I attention certainly your interest and your comments also well that the pale .
the environment
the Nova - Nova - Position responsibility of the timetables of the sites of wastes toxic
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , if the Minister is F of answer to the question next , can - be could - he we communicate a statement specific in a or two days .
what is to the fair the Position of the government of the Canada to the about of the responsibility of the timetables of the sites miniers in exploitation or abandoned who are now of his resort to the Cape - Cape ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I me bring a happy of consult my colleagues of the Council private and of give to the Senator a response specific .
I have the Appendix that , as this is the case for of other companies of state , the responsibility in Equity environmental not dispara?tra not .
as he is strong little likely that a purchasing sits this responsibility , he seems that she we hands .
the Defence national
the Nova - Nova - Conformity funding of the prospect of the damage occur by the floods in the coincidental of Colchester
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , I wish me also to congratulate the new Leader of his appointment .
as he has been Minister of the Finance to the level provincial , he knows that he not is not easy of find of the funds for the emergency .
my question respect the coincidental of Colchester , in Nova - Nova , who has been recently ravag? by of the floods .
four bridges have been emport?s and four highways have been ab?m?es to the point of be irr?parables .
as the Minister the knows , the Nova - Nova request a assistance federal for cover of the damage of more sponsor million of $ .
the Minister would - he the please of we say what measures he is prepared to take for that ensure d?bloqu?s the funds necessary to the model of these damage in the coincidental of Colchester ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I believe that this request if adresserait to the Minister of the Defence national .
I believe understand , of after this that the Senator has said , that the province has indeed asked of the assistance .
to my notice , the response need if supporter in the context of a program federal existing , but I donnerai more of details to the Senator soon that I close obtained of other information to this about .
the transport
the Nova - Nova - Position possible of a bill of infrastructure for the renewal of the road EH
the hon. Marjory LeBreton :
honourable senators , I wishes , me also , add the welcome to the new Leader of the government to the Senate .
and of a to bad management bid in Equity of fisheries to .
honourable senators , the words that I just of deal are those of none other that the former Prime Minister Liberal of the New - Brunswick , Frank McKenna , such that quotations in the Globe The Mail of the 5 October 99 .
he has said then :
the record of the government is still least reluisant today today that he not the was to the then of the election ( in 1997 ) ...
this that the ( Canadians of the Atlantic ) want , the only something that they looking and have always demand?e to the government federal , this is a vision , a settled 3.2 that he recognizes the problem and a ray of hope [ ... [ .
that has fact the government for resolve these serious problems ?
he has composed 911 and asked the Senator Bernie Boudreau .
then , talking of first of the Nova - Nova .
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
he if is of the road EH in Nova - Nova , who has been the theatre of a real carnage and the because of many Late .
in his quality of Minister responsible of the Nova - Nova , that committed do the Leader of the government for rectify to this deplorable situation ?
is - he prepared to if Services and to local that his government will spend a bill of infrastructure federal to the reconstruction and to the renewal of the sections affiliated Tragedy of laroute EH ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I me told when these words Mr. McKenna would ramen?es on the carpet .
I me delighted of the fact that , in the speech of the Throne presented yesterday , he be question of way very soaring and effective of the vision that he ?voquait .
of the talks are currently in during with the Minister of the Transport relatively to the infrastructure routi?res .
in the speech of the Throne , he is question of the infrastructure physical traditional and of those in the field of the Communications .
I find that encouraging .
that if inscrira perfectly in the plan of the government federal , then that the Nova - Nova if furthered to enter in the new millennium .
I discuss certainly of the question with the Minister .
the Senator LeBreton :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate sharing he the notice expressed by the former - Prime Minister McKenna ?
good number of those who have already borrowed this road know of what he is question .
he if is of a section highway extremely dangerous , as he in there of elsewhere in of other regions of our country .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the Senator me request if I sharing the notice Mr. McKenna who , of male , has already been my associated in a cabinet of lawyers .
I not praiseworthy not the hon. Senator in him saying that , on this point , I not am not of agreed Mr. McKenna .
this is ind?niable that the prosperity general who has been created in our country is almost without precedent .
the Governor of the Bank of the Canada believe that the growth of our economy to the during of the four last trimestres is Superior to 4 per , this who not if is never seen .
gold , despite this growth remarkable , our rate of inflation rest consistent to the objectives intended - this who step a achievement startling .
certainly , this achievement not if is not concr?tis? also in all the regions of our country .
Mr. . McKenna wanted can - be do equally the situation of way flamboyante .
I must however say to the honourable senators that to well of the places of the Canada Atlantic , the data on the creation of jobs and the unemployment indicate clear that the prosperity if is relates .
she not is can - be not also important that we the souhaiterions and not if can - be not fact feel across , but we continue of commitment of the efforts in this sense .
we hope that , this doing , we able rely on the support Mr. McKenna .
by elsewhere , I known very well the road in question .
I the have emprunt?e to numerous opportunities .
the system highway Main of the Nova - Nova , who has including b?n?fici? of the funding of the government federal , is in enough good state , even if he not is not perfect across .
he we must recognize the role that the Senator Buchanan has played to this regard .
the province of the Nova - Nova diminish a good system highway , but I the repeat , he not is however not perfect .
the hon. Senator has spoke of a road who require of the improvements .
I not doubt not that the Minister of the Transport debating of the question with his counterpart provincial in this Equity .
the environment
the Nova - Nova - Conformity prospect of the ?tangs bitumeux of Sydney
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , my question if directed also to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
he will noticed without doubt that our first questions for the put to the unequalled identification on the region that he knows the better .
I not bring not of comments on his authorized to we the questions that we him have raised until to now .
number of my friends environnementalistes working of Desautels - foot since long for draw the attention of the government on this question .
in fact , Mr. Don Deleskie , a particular , has even fact the extend of the hunger .
he has , of more , undertaken of d?contaminer the ?tangs to the assistance of a simple pelle .
before that the Minister changing to the question , I like him say that , recently , the Senate has adopted a bill of bill defeated who not treating or of the enl?vement or of the production of products chemical toxic dangerous as the PCB who if find in this held tainted .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank her the Senator of his question .
in fact , I thank all the senators of ask of the questions on a region that I known enough well .
I known well the question of the ?tangs bitumeux of Sydney .
in the past , he there has had of the attempts of timetables of the ?tangs bitumeux .
some of between they have cost very sir and not have not given of good results .
you has spent many of money for not obtain that of thin results .
the two levels of government , what that be their affiliation policy , have tried of impose of the solutions to the community .
these attempts have also failed .
however , this time - side , in the framework of this important initiative , the government federal , with the assistance of the government provincial , implementation someone 62 million of $ for initiate this who , we the hope , should be the regulation final of this problem .
however , account held of the experience of the past , experience who not was not very plaisante or culmination , he has been decided of do participate the community to the research of a solution to this problem .
the solution proposed just of the community .
the problem with this way of do this is that similar - side demands of the time .
he is many more quick of impose a solution that of seek to obtain a consensus to the within of the community .
by therefore , a group Joint composed of representatives of various sectors of the community has been developed on foot .
the government federal has participated to a program , conjunction with the government provincial , and those - side if are incurred to provide 62 million of $ , whose 70 per erroneous of the federal .
a commitment important has been took .
the group Joint is on the point of complete the first step of his work and he hope that of the measures corrective able be taken the more quickly possible .
that worth the worthy of highlight this consensus to the within of the community .
I have seen of the case where the you has deliberation for the other solution and the results obtained not have not been very palatable .
the principles of the payment by the polluters , of the prevention of the pollution and of the Elimination step of the products chemical toxic - Position Position of the government
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , a consensus to the within of the community is a something wonderful .
however , in this case - side the responsibility of this who if is product not can certainly not be imput?e to the community .
this is the company who has left a mess .
account held of the bill of bill that we critical of adopt , the Leader of the government support he personally the principles according capably the pollueur must pay and , particularly , the Elimination step of the manufacturing , of the production and of the use of such products chemical toxic , order that in the future we not hurt more face to this problem ?
in way , you has lost as of time with the solutions cut by the government and without consensus local that the little of time that he should for reach to this consensus not is not a about of concern .
I like have a idea of the opinion of the Minister of the Nova - Nova , Leader of the government to the Senate , on the principles very important of the pollueur - payer , of the prevention of the pollution and , more important still , of the Elimination step of the use and of the production of the most of the products chemical toxic .
you just fair of discover that the Whalers to the broad of the British - British have a rate very high of wastes in their body , this who is due to the production and to the use of many products chemical .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the participation local and the injured of a consensus local have been impossible to the two levels of government by the community .
the government if is realized to these requ?tes .
this is a process very valid and necessary , even if he ralentit a little the progress on the ground .
for this who is of the other question raised by the hon. Senator , I pretend that he has onerous per years for Establishing the ?tang of tar .
you not someone not a such pollution if build today today .
I not have no point of disagreement majeur with this that has said the hon. Senator .
I like well discuss of this about more in depth with she , but nothing of this that she has said not me honourably particularly .
we not must never allow that a such situation if repeat .
the Senator Spivak :
honourable senators , I am pleased of see that the Leader of the government to the Senate agreeable to the least with we that he must eliminate phase the manufacturing of the most of the products chemical toxic .
thank for this statement very evident .
the agriculture
the effectiveness of the programs designed to help the farmers
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , I wish me also the welcome to the new Leader of the government to the Senate and I him wish all the success possible .
my question door on a about that he knows well .
the farmers of the Nova - Nova have suffering three years of drought .
the program that the government has developed on foot not the has not drafting .
he pays to the farmers 70 per of the average of their income of the three past years .
honourable senators , 70 per of nothing , this is zero .
the Leader of the government is - he to the aware of that ?
in the affirmative , that will he to this regard ?
I want also him attention the situation in Saskatchewan , in Alberta and to the Manitoba .
the farmers are here to Ottawa since three days .
they familiar a situation of crisis to the Canada .
the Leader of the government to the Senate thus he this message to the cabinet and insistera he on the uniqueness pressing of the problem of dispute national referred our country is ceiling in some sectors of the industry agricultural ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I know that the Senator Gustafson just of the Saskatchewan . Conformity months last , I have had the opportunity of me pay to Regina to payments of member of the board of Administration of the Bank of the Canada , service that I occupais to the then .
during of this visit , we have been developed to the aware of the situation of the agriculture in the Prairies by the leaders of the sector agricultural and by of the economists .
even if I not understand course not also well the situation that the Senator , I am when even in legislation of understand the difficulties who exist and the desire of the farmers of have of the rules of the stake fair .
the governments federal and provincial have provided a assistance Supplementary of 1.5 billion of $ to the farmers in the framework of the Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural .
a part of the difficulty keeps to the fact that , until to this day , only 190 million of $ have been paid to the farmers .
however , to the end of the year , we anticipate that the determined questionable 550 million of $ .
the pace will if speed and he is to hope that the problem Whelan by the Senator if lessen someone little .
the Senator Gustafson :
honourable senators , I thank the Minister of his response .
the problem , this is that the program ACRA not works not .
the formula not is not good , as the know the senators of the two sides of the House who come of the Prairies and of the Nova - Nova .
she not works all simply not because that she if based on 70 per of the income average of the three past years .
the farmer who has known three bad years of following is really in difficulty .
the program not if d?clenchera not in his case .
this is there a of the major problems .
the government must redistribute the appropriation planned of way to this that the you can there have access .
this is there a about of concern national .
the country not can if allow of losing his farmers .
you we has said yesterday night that of 30 100,000 to 40 100,000 farmers could do bankrupt .
the problem transpires a such emergency that he Order a intervention immediate .
of the movements professionals agricultural have sought to reach the Prime Minister .
the Prime Minister Trudeau not was not the human the more rock in the Western , as the Minister the knows , but he if is realized to Regina , in Saskatchewan . It if is held in the chorus Work to the Assembly legislative , and the farmers not the have not very well treaty .
they him have launched of the Wheat to the found .
however , he if is indeed presented .
the Leader of the government to the Senate will he the please of say to the Prime Minister that the farmers want that he if votes on the situation in the field agricultural ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , he me will happy of convey this message to the behalf of the Senator Gustafson .
Affairs Affairs
notice of motion designed to Authorize the Committee to study the consequences of the Union Monetary European
leave having been granted of return to the notice of motion of the government :
the hon. John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 14 October 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign be authorized to study and to do report on the consequences for the Canada of the blossoms of the Union Monetary European and on of other subjects related in Equity of trade and of Investment ;
that the Crosbie received and the evidence heard on the question by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign during the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament ensure An to the Committee ;
that the Committee presented his report final to the more later 15 December 99 ; and that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the Electronic of the results of his study content in his report final and this until to the 24 December 99 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices usual , to table his report deposited of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be reputation have been tabled to the Senate .
Order OF orders
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Ajournementdu debate
the Senate proceeded to the study of the speech that His Excellency the Gouverneure general of the Canada has sir to the openness of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
the hon. Richard H . Vodrey , seconded by the hon. Senator Furey , move :
that the Adresse whose the text following be introduced to His Excellency the Gouverneure general of the Canada :
to his Excellency the very hon. Chairwoman Clarkson , Chanceli?re and Compagnon Main of the Order of the Canada , Chanceli?re and Commandeur of the Order of the M?rite military , Gouverneure general and Commandante in Leader of the Canada .
QU' IL PLAISE to VOTRE EXCELLENCE :
we , subjects very dedicated and cop of Majesty Majesty , the Senate of the Canada , assembl?s in Parliament , prions respectfully Your Excellency of entertain our humbles thanks for the Ex speech that contemporaries has advocates to the two Houses of the Parliament .
essential to the framework of proposals that she has presented in his speech , this who makes good number of between they possible in fact , are the surpluses , current and adjust , registered in the accountability of the Canada .
you is far of the painful battle research against the debt grew who , he not there has not if long still , we privait of opportunities , bouleversait our priorities and assombrissait our future .
through to the sacrifice contribute by all the Canadians and through to the determination and to the excellent management of our government , we hence face to the choice very different certainly , but to how exaltants of know toward what areas orienter the resources paramount of the population Canadian .
we know all that he there among the great public , the media and our own parties political of many ideas , of many dreams , of many priorities and of many ways different of reach to the same objectives .
he responsibility to our government of listen all the world carefully , of do his own studies and Evaluations and , finally , of decide of a plan of action .
this is of after the plan of action that he if will set and the effectiveness of his enforcement that he will felt .
of more , this is of the quality of his decisions and of his actions that depend the well - be of the Canada and of the Canadians .
the Gouverneure general has spoke of the direction that the government has the intention of take and of the doors who can now if open - of the doors if sloppily to the Canada on a future better and more interesting for the first generations of Canadians of the next millennium .
these doors indicate to Entr?e to , and not to Sortie to .
they if criticism on of the opportunities , and not on of the walls .
they are the access to of the Diaspora safest , to the education , to the research , to of the jobs productive and gratifiants .
the Gouverneure general has indicated this that the Canada if move of do for the Canadians to the during of the years to come and has explained why our country believe that these objectives are important .
today today , honourable senators , I like you body a word of the way whose I see our country - of his past , of his present and certainly of his future , such that I the con?ois .
this is for me a honour and a great happy of power take the speak in response to the speech of the Throne .
as I just of announce that I finish you do share of my looked personal , he is important that I the ranges with care .
since my arrived to the Senate , I understand better the real sense of these looks ; then let - me of you describe the manner - or rather the manners - whose I mine our country .
he there has all of first a question of geography , which is crucial .
I opposite to the centre of the Canada .
even if this statement can choquer good number of persons in this city , and of many other to Toronto , this is however true .
the centre - city of Winnipeg not is that to 20 minutes of the centre longitudinal of the Canada .
this not is not only a singularit? geographical , this is also a reality calibre .
that means that he there has two fuseaux horaires to the west and two and half - even three - to the is .
that means that the half west of our province reflects the great hampered and the great beauty of the Prairies while that similar if finding to the is is formulate ancr?e in the Bouclier Canadian .
you not can live where I opposite , between the Saskatchewan and the Ontario , without have of the country a perception different of those that in have of the persons least favoris?es .
honourable senators , I me hasten of you assure of fear that you not confondiez our situation geographical with the opprobrium or the insularit? .
our links Cultural and linguistic with the Quebec are formulate enracin?s in the community franco - manitobaine established to St. - Boniface .
during any the history of the Canada , she has been the a of the two communities of language and of culture French the more important to the outside of the Quebec .
our institutions cultural - of the sectors of the theatre , of the flagship and of the music - if are prior a Hall international and are enracin?es in a rich mixture of groups ethnic .
our world of the Affairs , built in more of a century of trade international of products of basic and now rich of the contribution of the new technologies , is a of the more open on the outside .
we accurate the world around as our market natural .
our producers , operators and n?gociants understand since long the reality of the globalization who their uniting well .
the place of the Manitoba in the world has can - be found his illustration the more ?clatante in the Games panam?ricains remarkably imperfect who if are held home we the been last .
this was the event the more important of the kind of any the history of the Canada and the third in importance to if be held where that this be in the world .
nothing not would better known we explain to the Canada and to the world around .
honourable senators , even if I seems Zion for my Courcelles in doing these past comments , this not was not my intention .
I acknowledge simply to remind that the Manitoba and Winnipeg are of the elements dynamic of the Canada present , of where he is important of complying and of comment the major questions who if pose .
though without malice , this Appendix , if she not is not postponed in question , risk of lead to a regrettable incompr?hension of the country , of his needs and of his opportunities .
our Fathers of the Confederation have including this danger and have designed the Senate of manner to ensure a representation balanced of all the regions .
those of between we who not critical not of great centres of population have the duty and the responsibility of speak firmly and often , as to the Senate that to the committees , of such sort that all the Canadians if actually hear .
I rise also today today as member of a generation in particular , this who conditionne essentially my point of view .
I am born to the enter of the Second War World , of sort that some events and some ideas of this then and of the years who have immediately followed are always fees to my memory .
I have fact my studies particularly in the fantastiques years 50 , decade whose you has fact the least of case in this century .
I have undertaken my first activities political fair to the time where Lester Pearson careful the leadership of the Party Liberal of the Canada .
of elsewhere , this is to the during of a evening remember in company Mr. Pearson , then Leader of the Opposition , and of a small group to Winnipeg , toward the end of the years 50 , that I me am committed for the life others the Party Liberal .
I have of first worked as official on the Hill to Ottawa , during Mr. Pearson was Prime Minister .
target , I not can me prevent of highlight that , even if he has been Leader of the government during to worthy five years and if he not has never led a government majority , Mr. Pearson has changed and enriched the Canada for always .
in doing this statement , I think to the great programs social that him and his government we have counsel .
that said , he me is came the other day still of thinking that he is well difficult of imagine the Canada in 99 without our flag insufficient .
for well of the Canadians , this act of endorses showing policy and of pride for the Canada Gallery grant era Pearson .
I have also been witness of the blossoms Mr. Trudeau and of the debut of his remarkable leadership .
Ottawa was became a p?le of poles for the young men and the young women , blinkers of energy and of ideas , who believed that all was possible and that the Canada was the place where this was achievable .
no of those - and he there in has several in this chamber today today - who were here to this then and who have shared the experiences of these years not able never the forget and , who more is , not has never since known a such effervescence in our country .
he there has a something fundamental that we have apprise then : not never under - Number the Canada and not never , to the great never , under - Number the importance and the Oath of the idea of the Canada for the Canadians and for the people of the world around .
honourable senators , if he is a remember that I Access of the years 1966 to 1969 , this is the remarkable sense of optimism who if d?gageait of across and who impr?gnait all a each .
Expo 67 was the expression soaring and hers of the confidence of the Canada in itself and in his place in the world .
to the reflection , I me realize now account of the power enormous of a such sense of confidence and of optimism therefore that of the source incredible of energy that he can be for a country and his population .
today today , I not can me prevent of consider the force of the Canada and of his economy , the absence of all conflict international of dispute , the revolution ?poustouflante who if prepares in the field of the Science and of the Technology therefore that the puissante combination of all these factors who , together , not can that improve the quality and the hampered of the life of all the Canadians and of the almost 6 billion of beings human who shared our planet , without repeated a time of more , and still more intens?ment , this even optimism who me animait when , young man , I am came on the Hill of the Parliament .
finally , honourable senators , I me timely to departure of the point of view of someone a who is to the Senate since very little of time .
I am came here he there has a little more of a year for / a new career .
even if I had a training of lawyer , to the during of the 30 years previous I have been a man of Affairs who if is tried of build a business acted his activity to the Canada and elsewhere .
this doing , I have many learned on the realities of the environment of the Affairs and on the operating of our economy .
I have learned that he was essential of have of the persons producing and well ensured in all the disciplines .
I have learned that the leadership is a jurisdiction exig?e and implemented to all the levels by any business prosperous .
I have learned that the pride happens relatively to a company and to his products is a key fundamental of the success and that the pride that a human charge to the regard of his country grandit without constantly when our products and services are export?s a little across in the world .
honourable senators , we must continue of learn the better party of our closest and of our links of friendship and continue of avoid the traps associated to the in?galit?s in the hampered and in the wide social .
he in is therefore since that Sir John A . Macdonald has fact a first assessment of our future , and that not has never been also true that today today .
we , Canadians , must remain firmly attachment to our values and to our identity .
a society who not is ?prise or of justice or of compassion not needy truly advance .
however , as the country of the chorus are of more in more closely linked , we must we focus on the needs special of the 21 century .
of first , he must that the Canada gave a economy and a life cultural more rich and more attirantes for capter the interest of the young Canadians and their offer of new prospects .
this is with these atouts that we able the hire to live and to do career here , to the Canada .
honourable senators , I am always drove of a firm conviction , who find his source in the enthusiasm and the optimism faced I have Alternately here he there has more of 30 years , and I not am not the only to believe that we can the do revivre .
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. George J . Furey :
honourable senators , this is for me a honour and a privilege of support the motion , introduced by my esteemed colleague and friend , the Senator Vodrey , designed the Adopted of a Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne sir by His Excellency the Gouverneure general .
I see here of the women and of the men who have fact many for the Canada , and of do part of this great institution me honore and me impressionne .
I like take a time for congratulate the Senator Graham and the Senator Carstairs of their work to payments of Leader and Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate .
I not have not had during long the opportunity of the see to the implement , but during the two first weeks turbulent of September , I have could see with what dedication they accomplissaient their task in this House .
my best wishes the accompanies in their new duties and I know that they continue of we contribute their contribution and their assistance .
I wish to add the welcome to the Senator Boudreau , who takes the relais to payments of Leader .
I manquerais to my duty , honourable senators , if I not f?licitais our Gouverneure general for the speech of the Throne that she has sir yesterday .
his accomplishments to payments of communicatrice , journalist and advocate of many causes valid in have fact a of the major figures of our country .
I am very enthousiasm? by the perspective of see his force and his spirit animer the position deputy - Alaska to the during of the next years .
honourable senators , this is a honour and a privilege of participate to the life public to this then of our history , a time where the challenges are of size and the opportunities stimulantes , a era of globalization and of hopeful technologique .
we are indeed to few weeks of a new millennium .
the then not is not only exaltante for the country all around , she Gallery also a point turning for Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the Labrador .
these last months of 99 constitute all naturally a time of v. during which the Newfoundland - alter r?fl?chiront to the place that they roles to the within of the country and to their prospects of future .
today today , Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the Labrador if 94 in the tourmente of the great changes technological and economic who balayent the world .
the people of this region not if suggest however not just ; they doing appeal to their skills and to their prior of long date for do opposite to the realities of the change quick .
through to their creativity , their resort , their solidarity , their determination and their fiercely to the work , they green their dreams and choose toward the before their province and their country .
the statistics economic recent we in say long on the evolution of our province .
the Conference Board of the Canada has pointed that the rate of growth real of the GDP of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , who if 12 to 5,2p. per , is the more high to the Canada .
the prospects of employment if am?liorent also , because the rate of unemployment has decreased of more of 2.5 points since the year last .
the honourable senators are to the aware of the benefits of m?gaprojets as Hibernia , the facility of the during Lower of the Churchill and the possible exploitation of the nickel of Voisey' St. Bay .
these great bills are cruciaux for the success economic of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , but the history is far of if complete there .
in all the jurisdictional of the economy , of the companies of our province remportent of the success of more in more ?clatants .
certainly , the industries traditional as the exploitation mining and of the Forestry and the fisheries fewer of the elements essential to our well - be economic .
but that not must not do forget the real dynamic of diversification who has began to if dramatically .
of the companies implant?es home we doing their Gallery in of the areas as the Communications , the technical manufacturi?res of forefront and the management of the wastes dangerous .
honourable senators , the a of the sectors of growth the more important to Newfoundland - Newfoundland , these past years , has been the tourism , and the trend should if maintain .
to evening 99 to , who points the contribution of Newfoundland - Newfoundland to the Canada in this fiftieth anniversary of his entry in the Confederation , has been a ?clatant success to the wide national .
his festivals , his concerts and his other activities , including the taken lengths of the turn of the CN , the been last , have known a Summer success .
these activities have contributed to prepare the next great Lifelong , in 2000 , similar of the milli?me anniversary of the arrived of the fog in the New third .
the Games of Winter of the Canada of 99 , held to Corner Brook , have also won enormous of success .
qualifi?es of the a of the best ?ditions of these games , the intellectual have fact discover our province to the t?l?spectateurs and to the visitors of the together of the country .
the success of the Games of Winter of the Canada , honourable senators , example the a of the major forces of Newfoundland - Newfoundland that I wish to mention , be the spirit generous , ing?nieux , bienveillant and warmest of the Newfoundland - alter .
you said often that the indicators economic not backed not , to them only , to illustrate this who fact a great society .
the Canada not is not became the great country that he is today today only in reason of his performance economic .
he is obvious that of the political economic solid and responsible play a role important , and the government land - neuvien all as the government federal should be f?licit?s for their record in this field .
the frontal of our province and of our country not keeps however not only to their performance economic .
this who fact of the Canada a country where he fact good live , this who the topic of the States - United , this who in fact the envy of the world around , this is the great passion of the Canadians who want understand and protect all the members vulnerable of their society , all those who not are not in legislation of take care of them - same .
honourable senators , he not must never take that to the lightly if we want continue of do the envy of the my around .
we must continually seek to aviver this great passion of the Canadians and never the let if ?teindre .
this is to Newfoundland - Newfoundland and to the Labrador that these values are the better illustr?es , honourable senators .
the quality of life of the Newfoundland - alter exceeds any legislation economic conventionnelle , because he is impossible of wants a price to the spirit community , to the expression cultural and to the compassion .
he not fact no doubt , honourable senators , that the quality of life is directly linked to the nature generous and charitable of a society .
according the Survey national of 1997 on the don , the volunteerism and the participation , the population of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and of the Labrador listed still a time among the citizens the more generous of the Canada .
more of the third of the population has given of his time to of the exclusivity of charity .
the Newfoundland - alter affichaient the more strong rate of contribution financial to of the agencies of charity to the Canada , 84p. per of the population of Newfoundland - Newfoundland of more of 15 years having fact of the charitable for help resource .
this generosity of spirit , in despite often of time difficult , is profoundly enracin?e in the history of Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
this is similar of people who familiar of great revers since 500 years and that the individual tie together to the held of the mixed .
erosion :
honourable senators , he if proceeded well of the things positive today today to Newfoundland - Newfoundland and to the Labrador , but many of challenges remain to met and many of problems , to solve .
he is very encouraging of see that the government federal if commitment , in the speech of the Throne , to if attack to these problems .
I wish to speak here of two problems in particular .
the Prime is the problem of the drain of the Newfoundland - alter .
many of families of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and of the Labrador have the pain of see departure of the friends and of the families for of other parties of the Canada and of the world .
the decline of the population to the 1 July last was the more lower never registered since the closure of the fishing on the Grand Pott , but he is still too high .
he is encouraging of see that the Prime Minister Tobin and his government are IT to this problem and profoundly to the relieve .
he is encouraging also , honourable senators , of see that the government federal if commitment , in the speech of the Throne , not only to work to keep the young Canadians to the Canada , but also to do know that the Canada is really the better place where live to the 21 century , a place where the best and the more brilliant in the rest of the world located come live .
the commitment to invest of the funds in the research , the businesses beneficial and the skills of the skills help greatly the young of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and of across to the Canada to remain in their country for there continue their dreams .
we have a challenge closely to met , honourable senators , extend of continue to improve the quality of the education dispens? to our young therefore that the opportunities of there access .
the young Canadians of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and of elsewhere francophile learn the better party of these new opportunities for power be self .
they not can the do without a assistance expeditiously in Equity of education .
the University Memorial of Newfoundland - Newfoundland famous , in 99 , his fiftieth anniversary in as that institution Brunswicker Crowshoe of the dipl?mes .
since 50 years , the University Memorial has played a role capital in the development of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and of the Labrador .
even if the access to a education of quality dispens? by the University Memorial and by of other institutions academic and coll?giaux of the Canada if is expanded to the over of the years , of many students of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and of across to the Canada not can / of the studies post to because of obstacles financial as the lack of funds and the fees of tuition high .
of many other are forced of abandon their studies before of the have completed to because of problems as the enormous debt of the students .
honourable senators , I known these problems for the have v?cus personally .
without the fortunate extraordinary that has established for me the tuition gratuite instaur?e in the years 60 by the Prime Minister Joey of the then and his government , I think that I not if not in legislation of do this intervention to the Senate today today .
fortunately , good number of the investment who have been announced in the speech of the Throne and who improve to improve the productivity and to struggle against the drain of the drain will orient?s toward the universities Canadian , to the support of the activities of research and development in of the areas as the care of health and the high Technology .
7.54 to of the initiatives as the Fund of staffing of the scholarships of studies of the millennium , these new resources features greatly to pay the education post more accessible to the students .
for power follow a training avanc?e , the children must power grow in a environment course where their needs basic are satisfied and they must be encouraged to if tutorial and to benefit to the maximum of their studies Primary and high .
as the senators the know , he there has too of children who live in the poverty to the Canada .
if he not there had that a only child poor to the Canada , that 9M. despite all injured to the extraordinary fabric social of our country .
if the Canada means succeed on the plans social and economic in the future , he him must come to across of the poverty home the children .
honourable senators , as you the has seen enough clear in the speech of the Throne , the condition of the children is to the Order of the day of the concerns of the government .
you has many insisted on the measures that the government account take for improve the fate of the children to the country .
in uphold the programs current such the credit of tax for children , the program of food of the new - Regarding and the cong?s parentaux , our government if is committed to take of the measures urgently .
the cooperation with the governments provincial in view of disseminating the offer of these programs and services is to the basic even of the success of this initiative .
honourable senators , when of the tourists of a little across to the world come visit Newfoundland - Newfoundland , as the rest of the Canada of elsewhere , a great part of this who the draw home we is the beauty of our Oceans , of our Forestry , of our mountains and of our rivers .
if we want maintain the reputation of the Canada to payments of country of a incredible beauty and of a great diversity source , we must do more for protect the environment natural , there including the many cash of plantes and of animals whose the existence is danger by the invasion human in their habitat .
honourable senators , we to Newfoundland - Newfoundland know better that anyone that when the balance of the nature is bouscul? , the impact on the people can be d?vastatrices and of great dispute .
this is therefore with many of enthusiasm that I welcome the efforts of the government in view of protect the integrity of our systems manmade .
through to of the measures designed to reduce the Honouring of gas toxic and to adopt of the regulations of together on the cash endangered of gerrymandering , the Canada will in legislation of meet his commitments opposite to the generations future in this who has relates to the preserve of our history natural .
honourable senators , to the during of the campaign election of 1997 , the government has promised to the Canadians that the half of the advantageous budget would aside to of new Estimates in the priorities Social and that the other half would divided between of the small of tax targeted and the reimbursement of the debt national .
in the speech of the Throne , the government has r?affirm? that this commitment figurera in the next budget .
this is a good new for all the Canadians who have suffering of the years of cuts of the programs and of the services without drop of tax sharing .
he important in addition of not not forget the importance of intangibles the debt national .
if this not is not a surprise for the senators , he in will words of a myriad of Canadians who are surprise of learn that the more great expenditure of the government of the Canada is Operating by the service of the debt national - which if 12 to someone 40 billion of $ by year ; all this money could be more useful if he was spent words , but we not can not the do as that the debt not will not been 883,000 .
a approach balanced is essential in the economy mondialis?e of today today , a economy who if equip quickly and who is in eventually evolution .
the powers public must therefore be more flexibles and capable of adopt more of representations strategic opposite to the challenges .
this is essential if we want adh?rer to these values who we bonds of the rest of the world .
in our quality of parliamentarians , we must urge and invite all the levels of government to not never losing of view the major values Canadian who we distinguent , because if he continues of there argue of the caught - for - account in our society , if he continues of there have of the children fuelled , if he continues of there have a lack of care of health for our patients and our persons seniors and if he continues of there have of the shortages , even of the failure , in our systems of education , capably not parviennent not to provide of the opportunity playing to all the Canadians , this is any the society who in suffering .
the great poet English John Donne the has very well said in his short , but rending Smart to Island d?serte to .
in as that member of the great society Canadian , I urge all the senators to listen the last strophe of this Smart and to interpeller the conscience collective Canadian who must always the be if we want we remember of these values who we distinguent :
and , by therefore , not cherchez never to know for who You the You , because he You for you .
the keeping of the approach of the government in Equity of direction public will vital if the you means that the government divested a role positive and compassionate auXXIe century .
I am enthousiasm? by the initiatives announcements in the speech of the Throne and by the opportunities if appearing to Newfoundland - Newfoundland and to the Canada , to the approach of the 21 century .
honourable senators , I forward with forward of work with each of between you for do in sort that the Canada be really the better place where live to the 21 century .
( on the motion of the Senator Boudreau , the debate is adjourned . )
the adjournment
leave having been granted of return to the notice of motion of the government :
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until to tomorrow , the Thursday 14 October 99 , to 9 p.m. .
his Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
questions of privilege
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , two honourable senators have fact know that they wanted raise the question of privilege .
well course , if the Senate the wishes , I am prepared to their give the speak .
however , I like highlight that I have already realized a decision on the two questions of privilege and that the Senate has agreed that the motions proposed by the two senators regarding these two questions ensure renvoy?es before the Committee Standing of the privileges and of the Rules .
if the Senate the wishes , the honourable senators could all simply repeat the motions adopted during of the last session .
however , if the honourable senators wish the speak , they are free of if express .
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I like simply me ensure that I have well including of what he account .
the two questions of privilege have been raised in under of the section 43 of the Rules , His Hon. has realized a decision , the opinion of the senators has been heard and the question has been referred to the Committee .
I believe that this that he must , this is all simply the confirmation that the Senate is of the even notice that during of the last session and that , with the leave of the Senate , or in under of the subsection 59 ( 10 ) of the Rules , the two senators are authorized to propose their motions on - the - cast .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , met me - even to the origin of a of the questions of privilege raised during the last session , I me plierai welcome to the desire of this hon. House further to the way of proceed .
however , he there has to the least two schools of thinking for this who is of determine if , when he there has prorogation , the Parliament remains before of a question of privilege who has been raised before the prorogation .
I want simply have a more great certainty .
to my notice , this is there a question of privilege very serious , and I believe that the senators were of agreed on this point before the prorogation .
in fact , His Hon. had felt that the question of privilege fine based to first view .
however , as he there has two schools of thinking , I wanted a more great degree of certainty , and this is why I have given a notice oral .
if the senators are of agreed , I speak very briefly of this case and His Hon. determine , if he is always of this notice , that the question of privilege craft based to first view .
he not there will then more no doubt , and the motions appropriate able be presented for that the question be referred to the Committee , a time that extend - side will been formed .
his Hon. the Speaker :
except notice contrary , I will now give the speak to the Senator Andreychuk .
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I wanted me ensure , me also , that my motion and this question of privilege not were not mourn .
I not have not the intention of me expand in long and in broad there - above .
I me outline of refer the honourable senators to the comments that I have held the 14 September .
the National Financial has released of the drafts not allowable of the report of the Committee of the Peoples aboriginal .
he there had a sure number of drafts in during ; he not fact no doubt that they have been missing to the attention of the newspaper .
that you me understands well : I not me votes not on the fact that the newspaper gave released the drafts of the report .
by request of bri?vet? , I not will not repeat my comments .
all the comments that I wanted do , I the have faitesle 14 September .
I want simply that he in be fact mention in this motion .
the documents who have been tabled then are enough ?loquents , and I am outset that the decision remain inchang?e and that I can now propose the motion for that the case be referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure .
decision of the Speaker
his Hon. the Speaker :
to least that a other Senator not wish speak on the question of privilege , I will pay my decision , who is the even that similar that I have renduele 14 September .
I acknowledge that he there has had pr?somption of injured to the privilege and that the hon. Senator can propose his motion .
I me request however if you not could not amend someone little the motion .
met given that the Committee not has not still been set , you not needy refer the case to a Committee who not there not .
you could can - be add to the motion this who following : to D?s that the Committee of selection will been set , that this case be referred to the Committee to .
is - this of agreed ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , I have attended to a meeting this morning , to 9 p.m. 30 , who if is d?roul?e to subject allure .
could - we know why you not has not created this Committee this morning ?
the meeting before create of the committees has reductions to 9 p.m. 30 , then has adjourned quickly .
when can - you if expect to this that the other committees ensure created ?
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I not can not answer to this question .
I see however the Leader Deputy of the government if rise .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not am not course that this question be valid .
she the would been during the period of the questions .
let - me however of there answer .
we are to the beginning of the session and the leaders of this side - side want have the possible of give more of attention that he not we has been given of the do to the membership of the committees that the Committee of selection will Establishing .
the meetings strain soon tomorrow on this about .
hence the response , Senator homme man .
referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I move therefore :
that the question of privilege to the about of the disclosure not Cabinet of drafts of a report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal be referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure when he will been set .
his Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , for be precise , the Committee of selection not r?organise not a Committee , this task belongs to the Senate of the Canada .
the formulation should be to a time that he will been set by the Senate of the Canada after Presented of the report . to
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , are - you of agreed for that we modifions the motion in this sense ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , I not like not , if earlier to the beginning of the session , use the Rules of the Senate because that our good friend , the Senator Hays , doubt that this Position not be regulatory .
this is all to fact against the Rules .
yesterday , I me am opposed to the Adopted of the motion of appointment of the Committee of selection .
this is this that they have fact with many of haste and of speed .
they have consulted to the selection of the members of two committees .
my Position not legalistic not the Rules .
the meeting of this morning party , further to me , serve to designate the members of all the committees .
that the leaders of the two sides of the House shifted decided of proceed to appointment of the members of two committees only not me bothers not .
but of there to believe that I fully the Rules , I not am not of agreed .
we not have that to rereads carefully the motion who has been agreed yesterday , then that I thought that she the would today today .
I chair could debate of these questions more earlier today today , but I rather expect to tomorrow .
I not fully not the Rules when I say that the Committee of selection has sat this morning and that he would could appoint the senators who will members of all the committees .
he has decided , in his wisdom , of not designate of the members that to two committees .
the Senator Hays has therefore reason and me also .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I not will not determine who has reason or who has wrong .
I want all simply you attention that the study of the reports of the Committee of selection has been surgeons to tomorrow .
you seen then the opportunity , during of the study of the Prime and of the second reports of the Committee of selection , of do argue your proposal .
the Senate studying now the motion of the hon. Senator Andreychuk , seconded by the hon. Senator DeWare :
that the question of privilege to the about of the disclosure not Cabinet of drafts of a report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal be referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure when he will been set .
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
his Hon. has ruled the 9 September that the question of privilege fine based to first view and the case has been referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure for study and report .
as we the have indicated he there has a time , the question of privilege is raised order of obtain of the Particulars , and I ask to His Hon. of statuer , as he the has already fact , that she fine based to first view .
if His Hon. in wants therefore , I am prepared to propose a motion appropriate .
decision of the Speaker
his Hon. the Speaker :
if no Senator not wish take the speak on the question of privilege , I am prepared to take a decision now .
as I the have ruled the 9 September , the hon. Senator has , according me , demonstrated that his question of privilege was based to first view and he can propose his motion designed to refer the case to the Committee .
referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I move :
that the question of privilege regarding a witness who has appeared before the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry be referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure , when he will been set , for study and report .
his Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate if adjourned to the Thursday 14 October 99 , to 9 p.m. . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 3
the Thursday 14 October 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
' ' '
the fisheries and the Oceans
the provinces marine - Conformity judgment of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of fishing aboriginal
the price of the case to Anybody to for 99
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
the business of the Senate
the adjournment
Order to the Rules
the Association Parliamentary Canadian of the NATO
the delegation Canadian to the session of the spring of the Assembly of the Atlantic North , held to Warsaw , in Poland - Tabled of the report
the strategies designed to answer to the needs of the aboriginal in Equity of housing
notice of inquiry
Order OF orders
the business of the Senate
the Committee of selection
Adopted of the Prime report
Adopted of the second report
visitors of Gallery
transport and Communications
Authorized to the Committee of examine the ascertain took in under of the Act on the transport to the Canada for Authorize the held of discussions on the proposal of Purchase of Air Canada by the sector private
Affairs foreign
Authorized to the Committee of study the new mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
motion of amendment
Authorized to the Committee of study the consequences of the union Monetary European
the business of the Senate
the SENATE
the Thursday 14 October 99
the sitting is met to 9 p.m. , the Speaker met to the Chair .
prayers .
the fisheries and the Oceans
the provinces marine - Conformity judgment of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of fishing aboriginal
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I you ask of you show a little indulgents , the time that I affects a word on the situation who has during in the sector of the fisheries on the Coast is .
to the past new , and I must splendours that I me in defer almost exclusively to the bulletins of press of this morning , the leaders seem have reversed to the moratorium of 30 days that they had contribute to meet .
always of after the accountability prominent of press of the debate who has had held to the other place yesterday night , he seems that the Minister of the Fisheries , Mr. Dhaliwal , has been took by surprise by this new , all as the government is remained mouth admission , he there has four weeks , when the Court Supreme of the Canada has realized his decision .
far of me the idea , honourable senators , of me ask in expert jurist and still least in interpr?te of the judgment of the Court Supreme of the Canada , but the statement made by a of the leaders this morning , according which him and his colleagues if reserving the right of regulate their own activities of fishing , is , to my humble notice , contrary to the judgment realized by the Court Supreme of the Canada .
in the decision majority , the Justice Binnie fact state of :
... the scope limited of the right editor of the treaty .
he wrote follows :
the right editor of the treaty is a right r?glement? who can , by regulation , be circonscrit to his limits update .
of the limits of taken , whose he would reasonable of if expect to this that they created to the families mi' kmaq of if ensure a living mechanics according the standards of today today , can be determined by regulation and colleague without bringing injured to the right editor of the treaty .
a such regulation satisfy this right and constitute not a injured who should be valid following the standard established in the v. Badger .
honourable senators , he me seems that these statements are a invitation lanc?e by the Court Supreme of the Canada to the government order that he move a regulation .
when the Justice fact reference to the regulation , to the limits of captures and to the tax of a regulation , he there has held of assume that he talking of a regulation who would proposed by the government .
he there has approximately two weeks , the Prime Minister would said that the government wisely of ask to the Court Supreme of surseoir to his judgment .
more recently , the Minister of the Fisheries if in is took to the members of the Opposition who unleashing the even something .
I suppose that the government has examined and rejected the option of ask of surseoir to the judgment and that this option has been dropped .
he me seems therefore that all this that he rest to do to the government , this is of present a legislation legislative or a regulation , or the two .
in addition , the government should consider of refer the regulation in question directly to the Court Supreme for ensure to this that he be well privilege with the judgment realized by this last .
I doubt strong that the aboriginal if provisional of least of that .
not important what regulation who will tabled will necessarily challenged and need move by the together of the process judicial .
I believe prudent that the government refer a such regulation to the Court Supreme of the Canada .
honourable senators , if I say that , this is simply because that the situation if worsening of day in day .
without front be akin , I think that we not are that too aware of the incidents violent who if are products in the region and are to the eve of if produce .
a vacuum legal has been created .
of other have capacity this vacuum created by the Court Supreme of the Canada and he me seems that That will be the chaos .
the price of the case to Anybody to for 99
the hon. Catherine S . Callbeck :
honourable senators , I like highlight that we mark the Monday 18 October next the Day of the human .
this is the 18 October 1929 that the Council private British has ruled that the women were of the to persons to in right Canadian and that they could therefore be ?lues to the Senate .
this decision has been decided to the following of a long battle legal and policy research by Faries girl , Nellie McClung , Dupuis McKinny , Irene Parlby and Henrietta Muir Edwards , five women Canadian better known as met the to Famous Five to .
since 1979 , in comm?moration of the case to Anybody to , of the price of the Governor General are Awards each year to the outset of the 18 October for honour of the women who have actively contributed to the promotion of the wife .
I am proud of do know to the honourable senators that a wife of Tignish , in Island - Edward - Prince - Edward , Anne - Marie Herring , will among the five laur?ates of this year .
Anne - Marie is a human remarkable who continues of contributing actively to the well - be of his community , of his province and of his country .
this is the second wife of the Island to receive this price prestigious .
Helen Yeo , of Charlottetown , in Island - Edward - Prince - Edward , the has already won in 1986 .
to the level provincial , she has defined and seconded of the changes of programs in view of increase the opportunity of the women during his mandate of member and of chairman of the Committee of the calls of the services social of the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward .
to the level national , Ms Herring has been a member active of the Council Advisory Canadian of the situation of the wife of 1981 to 1986 .
four other women receive the even honour that Anne - Marie this year .
he if is of Mmes Bertha Allen , of Inuvik , in the Territories of the North - Western , Maris Eriksen , of Calgary , in Alberta , Enid Page , of Aylmer , to the Quebec and Bette Stephenson , of Richmond Hill , in Ontario .
honourable senators , the five laur?ates of the price of the Governor General of this year deserve of the congratulations for the remarkable work that they have accomplished in their communities in view of do current the because of the women .
of the Senators :
hear !
his Hon. the Speaker :
I add , for the information of the honourable senators , that the Presented of the price of the Governor General if snapshots normally to Rideau Hall and that she is always followed of a dinner offered to the Senate by the Speaker of the Senate .
this year , he has been decided of present the price to Calgary because that this was in Alberta that habitaient the five women of the then .
the Presented will therefore made Monday next to Calgary .
I repr?senterai the Senate to the ceremony and all the senators who wish there participate are invited .
if you entitled of more forth details to this about , please enter in communication with my office .
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
the business of the Senate
the adjournment
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate if adjourns today today , this be to the Tuesday 2 November 99 , to 14 p.m. .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , I not you reaction not my d?sarroi opposite to this adjournment extensions .
we critical to worthy of return .
I chair liked that the Senate seat the week next , if the other week .
I not understand not why the committees pleas not are not already trained .
of the business tremendous could be undertaken by these different committees .
the Committee of the transport and of the Communications and the Committee of the Affairs foreign should sit today today .
Order to the Rules
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
he not if is even not of a motion .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the leave has been granted of propose a motion .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
this is exactly .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the Senate is before of the motion .
I believe that , a time the leave granted , the motion can do the subject of a debate .
I acknowledge however that normally , the motion of adjournment not can be debated .
the Senator Kinsella :
he if is of a notice of motion .
his Hon. the Speaker :
he if is of a motion proposing of adjourn to a date later .
I not have not consulted the Rules , but since the leave has been granted , I believe that the motion can be debated .
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , we in are to the part of the business Authorize on the notice of motion of the government .
a notice of motion has been given and he not can there have of debate .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the Senate has given his agreed , this who change the status of this motion .
he not if is more simply of a notice of motion when the leave has been granted .
however , if he there has of the difference , I am prepared to take the question in advisement and to prepare a statement official .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have heard the comments of His Hon. and of other senators and I happy happy of listen the Senator homme man and of answer to his concerns if this is possible .
the Senator homme man :
honourable senators , I not want not exorbitant of your kindness .
I happy short .
I can him do know that I conna?trai soon the Rules by heart and that we regards therefore certainly of the discussions interesting to the future .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , contrary to some , I not have not spent many of time to the Rules of this House .
for answer to the comments of the Senator homme man , I soulignerais all of first that the Senate has sat during two weeks recently , be during the two first weeks of the months of September .
the committees of the Senate had sat during two weeks before that .
we have therefore worked , but I not am not sure that that interest the Senator .
the Senator homme man :
I there was .
the Senator Hays :
for this who is of the business of the Senate , our objective today today , whose I speak during of the next section of the Order of the day , intended the creation , the more quickly possible , of two committees of the Senate , be the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications and the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign .
these committees meeting soon the week next if they are created and constitu?s .
we basis therefore to the work in this looked .
the balance of the representation to the committees has always fact the subject of discussions between the government and the Opposition .
he there has of the questions who must be debatable , and when I say that , this not is not as a apologize that a simple observation .
by example , I nat since little the position of Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate .
I not have not had the opportunity of speak of the statute to the committees with the senators of this side - side of the Senate .
he there has of other questions , that I prefer not not address now , who will inevitably raised during of my discussions with the Leader Deputy of the Opposition and with of other senators .
I hope therefore that this period will used of way replicating in view of resolve these questions , order that to our return , we hurt in legislation of proceed immediately to the vote for Establishing the committees .
annoying that we not there parvenions not , the Senate we help to resolve these questions .
however , we should be fully operational soon the next of our return , and the committees able then if meet , elected their chairman and call their first meeting .
his Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I me request if I could take the speak now .
this is a day unusual in this sense that we not have not many of Affairs to the Order of the day .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the honourable senators consent - they to this that the hon. Senator Hays particulars the speak now ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Hays :
I like ask if he would consistent to the Rules of deal of the questions Answers to the Paper under the Order to Rapports of committees to , in the actions the reports of the Committee of selection , and then , of the referred to the Committee of the Affairs foreign and to the Committee of the transport of the motions regarding the mandates .
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , the Opposition agreeable that he if is of a good suggestion and that we able proceed therefore when we posed to the Order of the day .
his Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of proceed of this manner when we posed to the Order of the day ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Association Parliamentary Canadian of the NATO
the delegation Canadian to the session of the spring of the Assembly of the Atlantic North , held to Warsaw , in Poland - Tabled of the report
the hon. Bill Rompkey :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Association Parliamentary Canadian of the NATO , who has represented the Canada during of the session of the spring of the Assembly Parliamentary of the NATO who if is held to Warsaw , in Poland , of the 27 extending May 99 .
the strategies designed to answer to the needs of the aboriginal in Equity of housing
notice of inquiry
the hon. Thelma J . Challifoux :
honourable senators , pursuant to the subsection 57 ( 2 ) of the Rules , I give notice that , to the next sitting of the Senate , I call the attention of the Senate on the strategies designed to answer to the needs of the aboriginal in Equity of housing .
Order OF orders
the business of the Senate
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , before that we emotions to the Order of the day , I you ask , Your Hon. , of we help , during the corners , to clarify the situation in which we we are anywhere more earlier .
if I understand well , the Leader Deputy of the government has asked the Authorized of present a motion of adjournment .
this Authorized has been granted .
then , the Senator homme man has began to in debate , and some of between we have esteemed that he if 13 of a question not Brunswicker be debated , since the Authorized had been granted .
the motion has been proposed then that we were to the to Affairs occasion to .
I not wishes not debate of the motion today today , but we side happy of power know clear when the debate is licences to the during of the period of the to Affairs occasion to , if as is that he the is .
of any obviously , we know when he not the is not .
I raises this question in the hope that to the future , we not news not to suffer the minutes of confusion that we critical of know .
his Hon. the Speaker :
I thank the hon. Senator Staunton - Lynch of raise the question .
I then him ensure that we we there attaquerons .
I have already asked to the staff of examine the precedents to this regard .
this is a point on which we must know clear this that he in is , and I am demonstrated that we regards this information to our return .
the Committee of selection
Adopted of the Prime report
the Senate proceeded to the study of the Prime report of the Committee of selection ( membership of the Committee Standing of the transport and of the Communications ) , presented to the Senate the 13 October 99 . - ( Conformity hon. Senator Mercier ) .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I move that the report be adopted .
his Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , if we had had knowledge soon the beginning of the explanation of the Senator Hays , I not chair not had to speak .
he we has said exactly this that I wanted hear except that he not we the has not said to the advance .
I have now the insurance that , the week next , the committees meeting .
I wish that , soon today today , the Committee of the transport and of the Communications who has been formed yesterday welcomes to the election of his chairman and starts his business soon the week next .
he there has of the soon judicial to meet on this very important question .
I getting not only appeal to the senators of the Quebec , but also to those of the East of the Canada .
we basis very Millenium by the decision who will taken in this bill of Onex .
that not affects not only the Quebec , I not am not paroissial .
I not have not the spirit of clocher .
I hope only that the Committee if instrument quickly to the task , of sort that we can sit the week next order of power have someone something to say before that the Court Supreme not non a decision who risk of have a effect on the future of Air Canada .
if he there has a something who should hold to heart to the Liberal , this is well Air Canada .
he was even surprised of have succeeded to do replace the behalf of the Airlines air Trans - Canada by extend of Air Canada , a behalf who is by the following became famous in the world around .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
Adopted of the second report
the Senate proceeded to the study of the second report of the Committee of selection ( membership of the Committee of the Affairs foreign ) , presented to the Senate the 13 October 99 . - ( Conformity hon. Senator Mercier ) .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I move the Adopted of this report .
his Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
the hon. Marcel homme man :
I was new Senator .
watch a moment , that can do the subject of debates .
I have therefore took the speak before this auguste assembled .
to my great surprise , human not is party .
this day - there , all the world has listened my interpretation of this section of the Rules .
I have said that the Committee of selection not should not forget that he there has of the senators who are came to the Senate in the hope of well serve their country , including in least to the committees .
I rather to not align? to .
for the moment , I rather stay to not align? to .
the problem if worsening , because he there has now five senators who are in the even situation , whose three are very involved by the work of the committees .
we not have not resolved the problem .
we want show to the world how works a democracy .
we want help to guarantee the unity of the Canada .
we want do understand this that the expression to First Nations to means .
we want appreciation of the respect to the minorities religious and other .
yet , we not consultations even not to decide this that he must do of five senators vilifying independent .
this is a shame .
you has had Order to all sorts of stratag?mes , these six past years , for avoid of take a decision , but I me refrain of appoint the senators who have tremp? in these machinations .
I not pretend not that the senators not align?s have more of rights that the senators Staunton - Lynch , Kinsella and the other .
I pretend by against that we in have many that the senators Carstairs , Graham and the other .
we are all equal , and this is the opinion of the Senator Atkins and particularly of the Senator Staunton - Lynch .
if the senators are all equal , they should power do part of committees .
I not say not that he should their give their Prime choice .
I am prepared to accept that you not me the confer not .
in private , well of the people me limited reason .
I give now a notice , as the Rules the demands .
as Your Hon. the knows approximately , when I hear do someone something , I proceeded to the actions .
he there has approximately five years , I have reminded to the Committee this who if was past .
this year , I have given my speak to some persons here , to the Senate , that I not recommencerais not , that I not me l?verais not and that I not invoke not of speech .
I not conclusion not that I have been failed , but almost .
I not sometimes not to believe that the only fact of say not can draw many of attention .
I had given my speak that I not invoke not of speech this day - there , having believed understand that we poursuivrions the business yesterday .
I trouvais that this was equitable and I have agreed .
let this who if is past .
the Committee of selection has chosen the members of two committees .
my comments not improve human in particular , but I in have enough of the people who not play not Summer - stake .
some hand losing any credibility .
in the statement of the Quorum who is The yesterday , he there has a section sensationnel wrote by a wife that I known since of the years ; I want speak of a new Senator , Ms Finnerty .
in this section , she said that she is very proud of have been appointed to the Senate because that she admire the work of the committees pleas therefore that the reports iterations and labourers who in are abrogate .
she quote , between other , the senators Croll and Keith .
she said that the value of the Senate if find in his committees and in the interparliamentary that he assure for better serve the Canada .
you not hearing more this speech very often ; I starts to in have more that enough .
if you me request of go work for the government of the Quebec , I orators .
I have other something to do that of losing my time here .
I am came here because that I think that the Canada is in danger .
I am came because that I believe that we can show to the rest of the world that we can do a difference .
I hates this hypocrisy who we fact say that our country is the better of the world , all in emp?chant those who are loans to work of do in sort that he the remains .
I understand the First Nations .
this not is not the Quebec who will resulting the apartheid of our country , as is that that sometimes a day .
we must be more attentifs to the needs of the First Nations .
I am very friend with the Nisga' has , in British - British , and I rise their Defence to each time that we in talking here .
( 0950 )
honourable senators , that if is - he past here , Tuesday last ?
a Committee of selection has been set .
I have attended yesterday to the first meeting of this Committee and I me expecting to this that the Committee lengthy that he not knew too what do of the senators independent , this who not me concern not so for the moment .
the members of the Committee of selection can have a some impact on the business that undertake a Senator to the during of the two next years .
he if is of a Committee important , since , in principle , these nine senators resident to what Committee meeting some senators .
I me am therefore presented to the sitting of the Committee of yesterday for see that a of the nine senators was absent .
he had sent a replacement .
honourable senators , I not nommerai human .
you see therefore to what point I am kind , not is - this not ?
the senators must do their own research for find who was in fault .
when a human accept a work , she must the accomplish .
the women who sit to the Senate have poses that they remplissaient their duty many better that the majority of the men to the Senate .
I me recall of the sittings that has fairest the under - Committee of the former Veterans in February 1998 . Ni the Senate or the House of the Commons not sitting to this time - there .
three senators Liberal have attended to the deliberations of the Committee , all of the women .
the leaders of the Senate not have could find a man for sit to this Committee .
I could you quote , word for word , this that the hon. Senator Carstairs has answered to the question that I him have raised .
I him have asked : to Quels were the criteria modern ? to
she has said that she was the first to address the question of the representation of the women in a report that she had prepared on the associations parliamentarians in 1993 . Changes delegations to the then were ensured only of men .
to this about , I remind that I have been replaced by the Senator Finestone during few years .
however , I forward still the opportunity of demobilizing my association hurling .
honourable senators , I not know not how or when the House takes a decision to the about of these two reports .
each time that the senators are interview?s to the television or smaller by a group of students , of journalists or other , that say - we ?
this is true , and I there believe .
however , that should if publicize in the facts .
I not believe not to the replacing .
if a Senator accept a position to the within of a Committee , he or she should participate to all the meetings ensuing .
we not are not of the members faced you said in the corridors : to Pr?sentez - you to the Committee today today and , after two years of studies , he there will a vote final in Committee . to
they not know even not this on what they if balances , but they l?vent the labour when their leaders l?vent the their .
they not know absolutely not this who if is past .
honourable senators , the words to interparliamentary to and to dedication to are to the way in our speech .
to the during of the two next weeks , start to reflect to the way whose we going address the situation of the senators independent .
if we not the do not , I cr?erai my own Committee of parliamentarians who if interested to the Affairs international .
human not can we in deprive .
his Hon. the Speaker :
if no other hon. Senator not wishes take the speak , you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
visitors of Gallery
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I draw your attention on the presence to the gallery of a delegation of the Senate of the Republic tch?que .
of the Senators :
hear !
transport and Communications
Authorized to the Committee of examine the ascertain took in under of the Act on the transport to the Canada for Authorize the held of discussions on the proposal of Purchase of Air Canada by the sector private
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , pursuant to the notice given the Wednesday 13 October 99 , move :
that , pursuant to the subsection 47 ( 5 ) of the Act on the transport to the Canada , the ascertain tabled before this House , the 14 September 99 , Authorize some carriers Threat unambiguous and some persons to negotiate and to conclude any agreement naively , be obedience to the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications ;
that the Committee heard , between other witnesses , the Minister of the Transport ;
that the Committee be authorized to allow the Electronic Electronic of his deliberations public ; and
that the Committee presented his report final to the more later 15 December 99 .
he there has a referred to the Committee .
the case afforded , I attempt of there contribute a response .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , the names of the members of the Committee met known , the Committee must now hold a meeting of organization in view of elected a chairman then of if swallow for give following to the Order of referred .
the hon. Senator knows - he when the Committee will set and prepared to / his business ?
he can now if put to the book .
this is specifically for that that we are income , for allow the beginning of the business of two committees , the a led by the excellent chairman of the Committee of the Affairs foreign and extend - side , whose the Speaker not is not still determined .
the will she under little ?
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , the response is simply yes .
I hear do of my better for that the Committee if circumstance order of designate a chairman and that he entreprenne his business , be more later in the day or of here the end of the week .
you me has fact pointed that , met given the motion of adjourn in two weeks , he needed a motion for that the Committee can sit during that the Senate is adjourned .
I will me in load to the end of the period of Presented of the motions .
( the motion is agreed . )
Affairs foreign
Authorized to the Committee of study the new mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , pursuant to the notice given the 13 October 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign be authorized to examine for in do report the ramifications for the Canada :
2 . of the keeping of the peace , particularly the ability of the Canada of there participate under the auspices of not important what body international whose the Canada fact part .
that the Crosbie received and the evidence heard on the question by the Committee during the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament ensure An to the Committee ;
that the Committee be authorized to sit during the sittings and the cong?s of the Senate ;
that the Committee be authorized to allow the Electronic Electronic of his deliberations public ; and
that the Committee presented his report final to the more later 18 November 99 .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , this Committee has played a role very important .
we know all the jurisdiction and the patience tremendous of the chairman , the Senator Stewart .
I am sorry of learn that extend - side we leaving in November .
I wish to this that a other man charming that I known very well and that I have seconded to payments of Secretary of the Party Liberal during the years 70 not if m?prenne not on my comments .
he if is of the Senator Lewis .
when I have spoke of interparliamentary to the within of a Committee and of members who if factories in the m?l?e to the last minute , I not thought not to the Senator Lewis .
we know all that the Senator Whelan we has passed this been in reason of his retirement and that he has onerous the replace .
the Senator Lewis , whose we know all the intellect , the spirit efficient and the jurisdiction to payments of distinguished lawyer , has been chosen for complete the work .
hence why , now that I have performance my test , I wish to rectify all this that I have could do of rodents .
I not thought not to the hon. Senator Lewis when I have spoke of interparliamentary and of the Alternative of the members of committees .
course , he needed replace the Senator Whelan , and this is the Senator Lewis who has been chosen .
all the other members of the Committee remain in service , and I me in delighted cleansing .
if I had fact part of the Committee , I chair hoped that the Senator Stewart be re to the Speaker , order that he can complete his work , with the Senator Andreychuk to the deputy - Speaker .
hence why I have agreed Tuesday of not not take the speak .
we have invested of the hundreds of thousands of $ in this Committee order that he embarked this study in our behalf - and I wish to this that all the honourable senators the managing .
he me seems perfectly natural that the members who have worked to this study ensure those who remission the work .
I not know not how you made the things in English .
when I finish to the school , I was good in some Contents , and bad in of other .
you me said that I excellais in philosophical , including in logical .
the Senator Taylor not should not festival many , because I have fact campaign for him also , during the worse year of his career in Alberta .
I can d?voiler here the behalf of all those who have provided their assistance .
the Senator Taylor :
that destroyed the argument according which you are a be logical .
the Senator homme man :
I thought you convertir to my logical .
I me delighted many of the training of this Committee .
course , I assisterai the more possible to his sittings , to payments volunteer .
honourable senators , I not have not the power or the gloatingly of give of the advice to the Committee , but I hope that this last will all the time necessary , because this is a work difficult .
I hope that we not regards not to ask , to the environment of November , a other extension under a other chairman , who need beginnings to zero .
I hope that the Committee takes all the time necessary for complete his work order that this be there the couronnement of the long years of service of the Senator Stewart to the Senate .
for facilitate the work of the Committee , I will me buttress now order that the Committee can if meet today today .
I could speak of all the sections enrolled to the Paper this morning .
we not should never hold a sitting to 9 p.m. because that I am almost to my better earlier the morning , and I am in fact to my better very later the night .
I wish good fortunate to the Senator Stewart in his work in our behalf and I hope that the Committee will the time of complete his work and of present to the Senate a report signed by the Senator .
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
I believe that he is only logical that this subsection be r?ins?r? in the mandate .
the Committee has held of the hearings to the during prompted he has heard various officials of the government , he has met of the officers senior of the forces Armed , whose some were in Bosnia , various experts of the keeping of the peace , of the historians , the ambassador of the Canada to the NATO and many of his colleagues , as civilians that military .
he has met the Secretary General of the NATO who has left his position recently and of other senior officials .
he has fact many of research and coast many of information , whose the major part help to the preparedness of the report final .
the witnesses key who missing , this is - to - say who not are not pr?cis?s in the mandate , are the Minister of the Affairs foreign , the Minister of the Defence national and the Leader of state - Staff of the Defence , who are the witnesses that he would the more logical of hear before of put end to the hearings .
I move therefore a amendment who , I the hope , receive the support of the Senate .
he suivrait the subsection 2 of the motion whose we are before .
motion of amendment
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
by therefore , I move , seconded by the Senator Kinsella :
that the Committee heard , between other witnesses , the Minister of the Affairs foreign , the Minister of the Defence national and the Leader of state - Staff of the Defence .
the hon. Fernand Robichaud ( His Hon. the chairman Acting ) :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion of amendment ?
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , the motion such that she was during of the session modified was enough aggressive , with the names of the ministers and of the other officials that the Committee wanted hear .
these names not are not pr?cis?s in the motion current in part to because of the deadline given to the Committee for do report and of the Availability of the ministers and of the other persons appointments in the motion original .
I ?couterai carefully the arguments of the Senator Stewart , but I believe that this are there the main reasons for expelling the motion is as she is .
well course , that not means not that the Committee not can not call these persons and of other witnesses if he the wishes .
I not know too why the Committee not has not already heard these persons , if this not is that his business have been aborted by the prorogation .
I know what are the intentions of the Committee .
I hope , as the has said the Senator homme man , that the Committee chief the Senator Stewart as chairman .
I have found that the Committee had the intention of planned his business soon today today .
he if could very well that all the persons Barbosa in the motion original ensure convoqu?es and heard .
he if could also , for of the reasons proposing of the showing of the Committee or of the Senate , that these persons not ensure not available .
of after this that I understand of the Rules of the Senate , we gone a problem if these persons not had not been heard the 18 November , be to the date determined for the Presented of the report .
this is for that that the motion has been worded as she the is .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , in as that sponsor of the motion key , I find that the amendment proposed am?liorerait this motion .
I there see a motion friendly .
she not limit not the number of persons that the Committee can hear , but she invite extend - side to hear , between other , the Minister of the Affairs foreign , the Minister of the Defence national and the Leader of state - Staff of the Defence .
met given the work unfortunately by the Committee during of the last session and account held of the quality of his work , I if very surprised that he not Justice not necessary of hear the three persons mentioned for power complete his business .
I forward me also with forward of hear the Senator Stewart .
the hon. John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , you suppose that the decision that takes the Committee to the about of his Speaker when he if soon not will can - be not valid .
however , forget that for the time .
I putting with the Senator Staunton - Lynch that the Committee has accomplished a work extremely fouill? and asset .
the work who has been accomplished to the during of the last sitting fact certainly equally the need of hear the Minister of the Affairs foreign .
he fact equally , though least imp?rativement , the need of hear the Minister of the Defence national .
the even something worth for the Leader of state - Staff of the Defence .
words said , I am fully of agreed with the substance of the motion of amendment of the Senator Staunton - Lynch .
following a other reason for which the Committee should hear these three persons .
the speech of the Throne , who has been read more earlier this week , makes almost the Committee to hear the ministers .
the government treated a importance increased to the security human in his policy foreign and he oeuvrera for that the representations global green of the progress enemies in the framework of a approach international for the security human .
we have already heard that of the share of the present Minister of the Affairs foreign , but now , this is the Gouverneure general who the said to the behalf of the government .
he is obvious that the Committee need entendreM. Axworthy when he in happen to this step of his work .
a other subsection of the speech of the Throne draw our attention , and I quote to new :
the government continue also of ensure to this that the Forces Canadian ensure in legislation of support the role of the Canada for contributing to the security in the world and he if efforcera of increase the ability of the Canadians and of the delay of help to ensure the peace and the security in of the country foreign .
he me seems that the human that the Committee must hear there - above is the Minister of the Defence national , the human promote of the Department .
I not see not how the Committee can do report without have heard these witnesses - the two ministers to all the least .
however , I not can not speak to the behalf of the Committee .
I in just now to the point raised by the Senator Hays .
what that he in be , the date of the 18 November found in the motion .
the problem referred the leadership of the government to the Senate is ceiling , this is that the Senate could strong well if find in a situation impossible - of a share , a deadline tie and , of other share , the insistance that three representatives in particular ensure heard .
if this is the case , the deadline should be considered as flexible .
if , we regards a big problem .
honourable senators , I think that the Committee like hear to the least two ministers , and probably the human to which you has fact reference .
to my notice , that not fact no doubt .
the problem referred we are face is , of a some way , a problem of form , to know : can - we the do in the time disposable ?
if this clause is Falardeau , he is strong possible that the Committee need ask a extension beyond - beyond of the 18 November .
hence the situation such that I the understand .
the hon. Nicholas W . Taylor :
honourable senators , I like take a time for express my support to the motion of amendment proposed by the other side .
ask to the Committee of write a report without have heard the Minister of the Affairs foreign , the Minister of the Defence national and the Leader of state - Staff - the Senator Stewart , who is a old Scotians , will of agreed with me - would a little as eat of the gruau without sel .
me met opposed more earlier this year to the intervention to the Kosovo , I believe that he is important that we understand the reaching who under - underlies our role in the Affairs foreign and the reaching who must be the ours in the future .
honourable senators , I have recently sir a speech to the behalf of the hon. David Kilgour , Secretary of state ( America Latin and Africa ) , before a class of graduates in Science political , to Calgary .
Mr. . Kilgour me had given the leave of express my own thoughts .
I have took the freedom of speak in the sense of the comments held by the Senator Stewart , to know that the future will conditionn? many more by the security personal or human that by the security national .
the most of the war who are victimized to the during of the 20 past years have been of the war civilian and not of the conflict between States .
this is almost as a ascertain in board , in this sense that we we buying to do participate our soldiers .
in the case of the Kosovo , what kind of logical could justify the commitment of our forces Armed for bombing of the women and of the children innocent , of the only fact that a country has elected the bad human for lead his government ?
I know that I happiest of the opportunity for reopen the file of the Kosovo , and I not me in apologize not .
however , even if I not am not member of the Committee of the Affairs foreign , I account attend to few sittings and ask of the questions to the various witnesses .
in the case of a about also important that the sending of our military for commissioned of the missions of police without the approval of the Parliament , why that not should - he not do the subject of a review thorough ?
the date limit of the 18 November is completely artificielle .
I support of all heart the motion of amendment .
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I believe that the motion of amendment help the Committee , because she t?moignerait of the showing of the Senate of encourage the ministers to if present before the Committee .
I understand perfectly that he can be difficult for a chairman of ask to the ministers of come testify , in reason of their employment of the time responsible , but if that found in the mandate of the Committee , that conferred more of authority to the chairman .
if , for a reason imp?rative , a Minister or the Leader of state - Staff not could appear before the Committee , as we have the intention of the invite to the do , he book to the Committee of decide this that he agree of do to this time - there .
met he return ask a extension of our mandate or basis - we lib?r?s of this condition for the Tabled of our report ?
I believe that this is therefore that he must resolve the problem .
he if find that the words in capably the mandate is wording me fond , because they clauses more of authority to the chairman .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , after have listened the debate , we , of this side - side , accept the amendment allowing to the Committee of hear these other witnesses .
further to the date of Tabled of the report , in as that chairman of Committee , I not have never had of difficulty to return ask to the Senate a extension of the time frame for deal of a question whose the Committee had been before , and I am satisfied that he in will therefore for the Committee of the Affairs foreign if he has need of a extension .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , we we dealing in the even situation that in 1984 , when the government has wanted create a Institute for the peace and the security .
all the world said that this was totally impossible .
many were against the creation of a such institute because that , twice - they , this was a gift of departure for the Prime Minister Trudeau .
I not was not of agreed .
to the then , I was chairman of the Committee of the Defence national and of the Affairs External to the House of the Commons and we had 30 members to organizing .
we have worked against the shows .
by that , I hear that if we feel that our task is important , we asking to the members of the Committee of work more often .
he not there has nothing of better for ensure the interparliamentary that of sit five days by week .
if the Committee not seat that of time to other , we know of experience that he not will not the time of do all this that he must do , there including write the report .
the gloatingly not is not the a of my explicit , and I me garderais well of do the lesson .
under the Speaker of the hon. Senator Stewart , and in concentrant the services , the Committee could sit during the day and do produce and publicize all the various documents the night .
with of the showing , I am course that he will this that the Senator Staunton - Lynch has asked and this that the Senator Stewart attempted accomplish .
however , if he not seat that two or three days , even two after - afternoon by week , this is impossible .
nothing not we prevent of begin a Monday , in after - afternoon or in evening .
I like really that you respect the deadline order that the report door the behalf of the Senator Stewart .
if we not consultations not to meet the deadline , we able always ask that you the repousse .
if we want have someone something of north between the hands , he would good , in the legislation of the possible , of do department the report to the date portion .
this not is that in all last Order that the you should show to ask a extension of the deadline .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
honourable senators , I request the leave of take of new the speak to this about .
his Hon. the Speaker Acting :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
I thank also the Senator Hays of give the support of his party to this motion of amendment .
he fewer , I believe , that the ministers and the Leader of state - Staff of the Defence if r?jouiront of power appear before the Committee .
he if is there of a effort martyrdom of party took , who intended to help the Canadians to understand the new NATO , the place of the Canada in this organization , and to see if we begin of the resources The for answer to the obligations taken in under of the new NATO , who has evolved many more quickly and in a sense very different by report to this that think the most of between we .
the Kosovo not has been that a example of that .
of other examples follow can - be , and they continuously of be still worse .
the Canada must know what place he nat in the new NATO .
I have good hope that the ministers and the Leader of state - Staff of the Defence accueilleront Right the opportunity of we present the point of view of the government , this who can if promoting useful for the preparedness of the report that many of people , to the Canada and elsewhere , waiting impatiemment .
the discussions that I have liberty to this comments to the abroad me the affirm .
the study help also of many country more grandchildren to take Position .
his Hon. the Speaker Acting :
honourable senators , the hon. Senator Staunton - Lynch , seconded by the hon. Senator Kinsella , move that you severing the motion in adding this who following after the subsection No. 2 :
that the Committee heard , between other witnesses , the Minister of the Affairs foreign , the Minister of the Defence national and the Leader of state - Staff of the Defence ;
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the amendment ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker Acting :
the vote door now on the motion key .
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion amended is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee of study the consequences of the union Monetary European
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , pursuant to the notice given the 13 October 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign be authorized to study and to do report on the consequences for the Canada of the blossoms of the Union Monetary European and on of other subjects related in Equity of trade and of Investment ;
that the Crosbie received and the evidence heard on the question by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign during the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament ensure An to the Committee ;
that the Committee presented his report final to the more later 15 December 99 ; and that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the Electronic of the results of his study contained in his report final and this until to the 24 December 99 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices usual , to table his report deposited of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be reputation have been tabled to the Senate .
( the motion is agreed . )
the business of the Senate
Authorized to the committees of si?gerpendant the adjournments
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) f ) of the Rules , I move :
that , for the length of the presented session , the committees special carry if meet during the adjournments of the Senate .
his Hon. the Speaker Acting :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker Acting :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate if adjourned to the Tuesday 2 November 99 , to 14 p.m. . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 4
the Tuesday 2 November 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
visitors of Gallery
' ' '
the Late of Greg Moore
tribute
the Late of Mwalimu Julius K . Nyerere , Ancien chairman of the Republic Unie of Tanzanie
tribute
the months of the history of the women
the policy of the tax on the income formed to the owners of lots private
the Late of Claude Masson
tribute
the Defence national
the recognition of the missions of keeping of the peace to the abroad
the languages official
postponement of the date of the Tabled of the report annual of the Commissioner
the crime of Control of beings human
the Month of the osteoporosis
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy
Tabled of the report annual
the Clerk of the Senate
Tabled of the accountability annual
Affairs foreign
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the consequences of the Union Monetary European
Presented of the report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign Requesting the Authorized of Services of the staff
Affairs foreign
the Committee of selection
Presented of the third report
the Clerk of the Senate
referred of the accountability annual to the Committee of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration
the adjournment
the speech of the Throne
the directed in response - Position end of the debate the eighteenth day of sitting - Notice of motion
the bill on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
first Reading
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in implement of conventions tax
first Reading
bill of bill on the perquisitions and the saisies international
first Reading
the Act on the Parliament of the Canada
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the Code criminal
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
bill of bill on the Assent Royal
first Reading
the Act on the Immigration
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the Code criminal Position Act on the system Correctional and the implementation in freedom under condition
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the Senate
Tabled of the report of the delegation of the Senate in Republic Kirghize
Affairs foreign
notice of motion designed to Authorize the Committee to Services of the staff
notice of motion designed to Authorize the Committee to allow the Electronic Electronic of his business
review of the policy Canadian antidrogues
notice of motion Authorize the training of a Committee Senate Special
the federalism and the globalization
notice of inquiry
review of the Act Canadian on the protection of the environment
notice of motion
office of specifications of the environment for the children
notice of motion constitutive
the Defence national
notice of motion Authorize creation of a Committee Senate Special responsible of examine the conduct of the staff to the during of the mission in Somalia and the destruction of issues medical of the staff in mission in Croatia
the funding of the education post
notice of inquiry
the Conference on the equality of the women and their participation to the life public
notice of inquiry
the Canadians eminent and their role to the Kingdom - U
notice of inquiry
the access to the data of the census
Presented of Petitions
the business of the Senate
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Agency Canadian of the customs and of the income
the changes of the Benefit tax national for children - Changes effects on the providers
the Nations Nations
the disarmament nuclear - Position policy of the government opposite to the resolution of the New Agenda Coalition
the Defence national
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King
the West Scotia Scotia Regiment - Position appointment of a Colonel Honorary
the agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Position visit of the delegation to Ottawa - Changes anomalies in the statistics
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Changes representations presented to the Prime Minister
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Conformity effectiveness of the program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Position visit of a delegation to Ottawa - Changes anomalies in the statistics
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Changes impact economic of the dropping of the income agricultural
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Position possible of a program of credit agricultural
Library of the Parliament Langues official due of the regulatory
the committees abiding Standing - Message of the Commons
the statement of the Speaker on the granting of a leave to the during of the Affairs occasion and on the event of the 14 October 99
Order OF orders
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Continued of the debate
bill of bill admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the strategy of the housing for the aboriginal
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
the SENATE
the Tuesday 2 November 99
the sitting is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker met to the Chair .
prayers .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , before of move to the statements of senators , I like you attention the presence to our gallery of few visitors of Gallery .
he there has of first a delegation of the Assembly national of the Republic of Slovenia , governed Mr. Janez Podobnik , chairman of the Assembly national , and accompanied by His Vassilev Bozo Cerar , ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia to the Canada .
to the behalf of all the honourable senators , I you wish the welcome to the Senate of the Canada .
of the Senators :
hear !
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the other visitor of Gallery to our gallery today today is the Senator John Watson of Australia , chairman of the Committee Senate Special on the Pension of retirement .
you are the welcome to the Senate Canadian , Senator Watson .
of the Senators :
hear !
' ' '
the Late of Greg Moore
tribute
the hon. Ross Fitzpatrick :
honourable senators , I rise the speak today today for pay tribute ?Greg Moore , the coureur automobile of 24 years who is death Sunday after have had a accident with his voiture during of a won in California .
Greg is born and has grew to Maple Ridge , in British - British , and he was a of the best Pilots of the series CART or of the stretch automobile Indy .
in 1997 , to the age of 22 years , he has been the more young pilot to win a won in series CART .
unfortunately , well of other prospects if overemphasized to him .
Greg older more that his Longboat on the bobsleds in giving many to his community .
he runners to of many observe of charity and he was a idea advocate of various causes .
his enthusiasm in the Assistance was real .
a funds Authorize his behalf continue of come in assistance to the exclusivity that he shortline .
honourable senators , the Canadians not are not loans of forget Greg Moore .
the Late of Mwalimu Julius K . Nyerere , Ancien chairman of the Republic Unie of Tanzanie
tribute
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , in 1966 , you me had offered the position of deputy - dean of the school of right of Dar role - Salaam , in Tanzanie .
I had refused the offer , pr?f?rant stay to the Canada where I am became associated to the within of the more great cabinet of lawyers of the region Atlantic .
if I had agreed the position in Tanzanie , I chair been the witness draft of the miracle democratic orchestr? by Julius Nyerere , who has led his country to the independence in the affranchissant of the England in 1961 , and who was the Prime chairman of the Tanzanie , of 1962 to 1985 .
Mr. . Nyerere was loved and v?n?r? across in the world for his integrity , his modestly and his intellect .
he was considered as the a of the more great men of state of the Africa , to the even payments that Nelson Mandela , and he account among the more important leaders of the 20 century .
Mr. . Julius Nyerere had a training of enseignant .
he is came in policy in 1954 and he fonda the TANU , be the union national African of the Tanganyika .
he is became Minister in Leader when the TANU remporta the election of 1960 .
Mr. . Nyerere became Prime Minister when the Tanganyika acc?da to the independence , in 1961 , but he d?missionna soon 1962 for if focus on the restructuring of the TANU and on the role that he going play by the following .
he became chairman of a r?publique after the election of 1962 .
met given Mr. Nyerere otherwise the releasing of the States African , the Tanzanie servit of found to the members of the Congress national of Africa and to of many other groups dirig?s by of the rebel of the Zimbabwe , of the Mozambique , of the Angola and of the Uganda .
Nyerere was a defender advocate of the culture African local , and his too the more miraculeuse was of give to the Tanzanie the union ethnic .
to the opportunity of a tribute to Nyerere in the framework of the Honouring to As It Happens to , Stephen Lewis , who has served with the Nations Nations in Africa and who was a friend of the former chairman , if is said ?merveill? of the way whose Nyerere has took a country divided according the affiliation unfashionable and has fact of all of the to Tanzaniens to .
he there is came in setting of solid systems of education and of health and in imposing a language common .
he was crushed by the consequences of the Division ethnic : the massacres and the destruction of a population and of a country .
when Nyerere spoke of the catalogued and older of the assistance to his population , he spoke to many of emotion , of pain and of understanding to .
not frustrated been of his vision and of his leadership , the Tanzanie would could know of the Dirnfield similar .
the 20 October , of the hundreds of thousands of Tanzaniens have began to affluer to the enter in the streets of the capital Dar role - Salaam order of pay a last tribute to a man that the you called across in Tanzanie grant to enseignant . to
of the PCs huge , but however harshness , bordaient the road Work of the airport to the residence Mr. Nyerere stretch in the banlieue and g?missaient to the from of his cercueil .
Julius Nyerere has had right to of the funeral of state in Tanzanie the Thursday 21 October .
this was a man to the vision and to the principles outstanding who miss to of many persons .
honourable senators , Mary Lou Findley has well summary the situation to the end of the tribute realized by the radio English of CBC - Canada in saying that if Nyerere just of a small country , this not was certainly not a small colourful .
I support the last note of Stephen Lewis , who has said that Julius Nyerere was to a man all to fact pleasant to .
the months of the history of the women
the hon. Lucie pin :
honourable senators , October is the Month of the history of the women .
this is a excellent opportunity of saluting the progress obviously and of consider the obstacles that he we rest to overcome .
we are very thank to the to Famous Five to who have led a long and duration fight in view of pay our presence to the House possible .
he there has now 70 years that we have prior the right of be addressed as of the persons .
well that I not me touch not to this that the you relaxed that we were before that we devenions of the persons , I know however that be a human not has not still the even negative that be a man .
the number of women revitalizing in this House and in the other place is for me a source of recognition and of expressions .
their determination , their showing , their intellect and their spirit constitute of the apports immense for our country .
yet , how forget that we are still if little ?
in this House , our colleagues masculins continue of we overtake in number , to reason of two for a .
all in we earners of the fact that the Senate of the Canada be the fifth of the world for this who is of the representation hauls , we not can certainly not we settle of the state present of the things .
he rest of many obstacles to the participation of the women in of if many facets of our life economic and policy .
I have Whelan of multiple time , in this House and elsewhere , the difficulties experienced the women are confront?es when they if factories in policy .
yet , without a representation expeditiously of the women and of the other groups in our institutions political , how can - we we targuer of democracy ?
therefore , to the time where we celebrate this success essential that has been the case to human to and all this that she has LG for of the generations of Canadians , sachons that we not have not still reached the purpose .
if the five celebrities militantes were with we , they continueraient of if fight for the equality .
because that , today today still , we do of the differences between the persons : between the men and the women , between the rich and the poor , between the young and the old , between the majority and the minorities .
and the figures regarding the members of this House and those of the other place continue of publicize these distinctions , until to the day where we accept the fact that a human is a human and nothing of other , or more or least .
the policy of the tax on the income formed to the owners of lots private
the hon. Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators , I like draw your attention on the concerns of the owners Canadian of lots private to the regard of the policy of the tax on the income and on the need , in their interest , of contribute in the best soon the changes documentation to the bill .
in my province , the New - Brunswick , a family on six is dispose of a Editor bois? .
approximately 425 100,000 lots private to the Canada owned to of the families .
in many of provinces , this is of these lots that destined a part important of the Contents first necessary for do turn the sawmills and the setting of p?te to paper .
the most of the owners of these lots trap their land whose they taking care not only because that she contributes to embellir the loss and to serve of habitat to the cash threat , but also because that she provides of the lumber to the industry and assure of the jobs in the small communities rural .
take care of these lots private is a work monumental .
do watch a tree to departure of a plant takes enormous of time , to the least 40 years in the most of the regions of this country .
the a of the ways whose the government federal can encourage the promotion and the strengthening of the activities of facility canopy is of apply a good policy of tax on the income .
when the Canadians spend of the money for borrow a new case , they can the first years d?duire the losses of their other sources of income in the legislation where they can prove to Revenue Canada that they if waiting to of the to profits reasonable to of their new business .
the owners of lots private , them , not can not the do .
when a exploitation agricultural proceeded of a generation to a other , the tax on the gain in capital is order as that the family Vision the firm .
when a Editor bois? proceeded of a dispose to a other the other , the tax to pay is often enormous .
if the new dispose not limit not of income for pay the tax in question , he can be forced of learn the money necessary of the Editor , this who well often means that he must cut the trees .
( 1420 )
why aside to the owners of lots private a treatment different of extend referred have right the other Canadians ? Position something if explain , me seems he , by the fact that the wording of the Act of the tax on the income is such that a business who doctor until to 40 years for enable of the profits waved simply between the mailles of the net .
of by his wording present , the Act of the tax on the income not can not hold account of the realities of the practices of the management logging and of the soon necessary for that a exploitation can enable of the profits .
the associations of owners of lots private examining the question since 1988 .
they assessing that the resistance to the change to which they have been face during of the first years has fact place , to the Department of the Finance and to the Department of the Revenue national , to a understanding reasonable of the problem .
the question has been properly substantive by different committees of the House of the Commons , by the NRTEE NRTEE national on the environment and the economy and , recently , by our own under - Committee responsible of study the forest bor?ale .
honourable senators , he we must obtain the cooperation of the owners of lots private if we want meet the commitments that we have took in the Protocol of Kyoto and in the bill announced of legislation on the cash in calling to the Canada , and their give a policy tax based , who the encourage to reboiser their settlements and to accelerate of efforts for well manage their Lands .
he is great time that we confront this problem .
I request urge to the Minister of the Finance of lead to well this bill .
the Late of Claude Masson
tribute
the hon. Fernand Roberge :
Claude was a man simple , well in his peau , always of good mood and respected by his peers .
he was also a man of faith , committed socially , a professional , short , a man copy .
his departure is a great loss for Position Presse and the environment journalistic Quebec , therefore that for the society in General .
we offering our sympathy to his family and to the families of the other hearted in this terrible accident .
the Defence national
the recognition of the missions of keeping of the peace to the abroad
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , I have found strange that , during of his first visit official to the Canada , Lord George Robertson , the new Secretary General of the NATO , criticism the Estimates military of the Canada then that he ignorait apparently that the troops Canadian who serve the interests of the peace in the world are now more many that they not the have been since the War of Korea .
the forces Canadian of keeping of the peace rely among the more pr??minentes and the more effective to the world .
in this months of November , advancement - in for pay tribute in particular to the 108 Canadians who have lost the life in screening the security and the peace international to the during of the 40 past years .
their contribution to the soulagement of the suffering human is invaluable .
the Canadians know that the keeping of the peace is a characteristic momentous of our country .
we must well understand that our forces Armed play a role important in the promotion of our interests to the abroad , what that be the way whose we the d?finissons .
working in of the conditions astreignantes d?passant all this that you can if imagine and classes of their family during of very long periods , the members of the forces Canadian of keeping of the peace are Process in view of change really the things and of ensure to the promotion and to the keeping of a real security .
of the Canadians if are fought and are dead for defend the security and the freedom .
our efforts continuels in view of ensure the security in the world constitute a tribute to their sacrifice and affirm this calling tradition .
our forces of keeping of the peace not deserve not least .
honourable senators , for this who is of the funds spent to the reconstruction in the Balkans , where the War not has left that devastation , and in of other regions of the world , who must if back of the consequences of the War , the Canada not has to receive of lessons of persons .
in the operations of combat , this not is not that the Canada expenditure too little , this is that the other country , there including the major country of the NATO , spend too .
the languages official
postponement of the date of the Tabled of the report annual of the Commissioner
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , the 4 October last , the Commissioner to the languages official presiding , in a letter submitted to our chairman , his intention of until the Tabled of his report annual , of manner to cover now the period correspondent to the year tax rather that to the year civil .
the Act on the languages official not is not clear on the guideline of the Tabled of this report annual .
however , the section 37 of the Act of interpretation declare that the concept of year if spread on any period of 12 months .
this decision deductions the communities linguistic minority and the Committee Joint Standing of the House of the Commons and of the Senate of the languages official of a report and of a tool very asset and very important .
the crime of Control of beings human
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , across in the world , of the persons if doing deleted , contraindre , catch and sell in the framework of this that you Order populairement the to treating World of the esclaves to .
the victims are usually of the women , of the daughters and of the boys who are forced of live in of the situations of exploitation sexual and economic to the profit of recruteurs , of trafiquants and of organizations criminal .
in 1997 , the UN averted valued million the number of the persons who were victims of a situation Control to the wide World , whose the benefit net could achieve 7 billion of $ by year .
the Canada not is not to the homeless of such activities .
the fall last , you has discovered to Toronto a system of prostitution , between other , set of women Asian .
the Control of beings human , of even that the many activities whose if Adieu this kind of crime , as the prostitution , the s?questration and the abuse , are all of the activities ill?gales to the Canada .
despite the conventions international prevented the treating of the esclaves human , this kind of activity criminal is in increase .
that if explain in part because that he is relatively easy of do the Control of beings human .
often , the persons doing the subject of Control not if education not account that they are in danger and traversent volunteers the border for enter in a other country .
he is least likely that the officers of the peace actually of the arrests in the case of Control of beings human that in the case of smuggling of drug and of weapons to gun .
he is tragic of see that the great case that the you fact of the young assure a request continuing for do of new recruits home the women more young and the children .
the Control of beings human presented a risk for the security , because the profits earned through to the exploitation of beings human serve often to fund the organizations criminal .
in Asia , in the region of the M?kong , the Control of the beings human rivalise now of interest with the Control of drug to the eyes of the crime organized .
of even , in of other regions instables , as in the former Union Soviet , the women and the children are particularly vulnerable to this regard .
the Canada must work to prevent some organizations of if serve of the Canada as of a held of raising of funds for the funding of activities criminal .
in 1949 , the Assembly general of the Nations Nations approuvait the Convention for the repression and the abolition of the treating of the beings human and of the exploitation of the prostitution of resource .
the Canada not has always not ratified this convention in despite of the fact that she be entry in force in 1949 .
in June 2000 , you marks the fifth anniversary of the Declaration of Beijing .
the a of the objectives strategic of the Program of action of Beijing is of eliminate the treating of the women and of help the victims of the violence properly to the prostitution and to the treating .
he is essential that the Canada contemplated of ratify and of apply this convention international .
fault of what , the Canada manquerait to his commitments to the regard of the Nations Nations and , who more is , manquerait to his commitments to the regard of these million of persons who are in danger .
I urge the government of the Canada and the senators to see to this that the Canada obligations this convention before the fifth anniversary of the Declaration of Beijing .
the Month of the osteoporosis
the hon. Vivienne Poy :
honourable senators , November is the Month of the osteoporosis to the Canada .
the osteoporosis is a illness d?bilitante caract?ris?e by a low disease ultrasound , who affects a more great fragilit? of the routine and of the risks of fractures .
the fact that this illness be standard home the persons seniors has of the consequences serious for our country .
approximately 1.4 million of Canadians suffering currently of osteoporosis and 2 million of more continuously of in be achieved a day .
the osteoporosis Strike a wife on four of more steep years and a man on eight in this even group of age .
the treatment of the osteoporosis costs 1.3 billion of $ by year to the Canada .
the education and the prevention can do a difference admired in this who respect the osteoporosis .
in reason of the lack of education and of education public , many of persons learn that they are afflicted of osteoporosis when he is already too later .
the reduction of the density ultrasound if product defensive to the over of the years , well before of become apparent .
when a fracture if product , the difficulty is already carried and can if publicize by of the l?sions to the generals vert?brale , to the hanche or to the poignet .
the osteoporosis is almost always irr?versible .
the fractures ost?oporotiques are generally d?bilitantes and depleted greatly the quality of life of the persons affected .
today today , we in know more that never on the prevention of the osteoporosis , a illness considered in the world around as a important problem of health .
we Establishing of the routine solid soon the first years of the life is a of the things the more important that we can do .
he is also important of we ensure of have enough of calcium in our regime food , of even that of do regularly of the fiscal , particularly of the sports of implementation in reminder as the relative , the won , the Carling and the badminton .
he there now of the tests who created a Screening signal of the persons to risk .
we can reduce substantially the number of persons who d?velopperont the osteoporosis if we take of the measures of prevention and of education .
the Canada must do evidence of leadership in ?laborant a framework exhaustive of prevention , of diagnosed and of treatment of this illness incapacitante .
the kind of leadership whose I talking is consistent to the strategy stated in the speech of the Throne , the months last , and Requesting the creation of instituts Canadian of research in health .
these instituts improve to meet of the researchers who if interested to the health and to establish of the priorities in Equity of research Joint .
the osteoporosis must rely among our priorities in Equity of research in health if we want improve the quality of life of the Canadians , met given particularly the ageing of the population to the during of the next decades .
the rate of osteoporosis can be substantially reduced if we envisageons of the measures of prevention to long term .
honourable senators , order of increase the education to this important question of health , I you urge all , therefore that our colleagues of the House , to take the th? with me and the representatives of the Corporation of the osteoporosis of the Canada , tomorrow after - afternoon , between 16 p.m. and 18 p.m. , in the Room Darrel - C of the Block of the Centre .
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy
Tabled of the report annual
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the report annual of the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy for the period if laid 31 March 99 .
the Clerk of the Senate
Tabled of the accountability annual
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I have the honour of you inform that , pursuant to the section 133 of the Rules of the Senate , the Clerk of the Senate has tabled on the Board a state detailed of his revenues and of his Payments for the fiscal financial 1998 - 99 .
Affairs foreign
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. John B . Stewart :
( the text of the report found to the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
the consequences of the Union Monetary European
Presented of the report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign Requesting the Authorized of Services of the staff
the hon. John B . Stewart , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign , presented the report following :
the Tuesday 2 November 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign has the honour of present his
second REPORT
your Committee , who has been authorized by the Term Thursday 14 October 99 , pursuant to the section 86 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , to study and to do report on the consequences for the Canada of the blossoms of the Union Monetary European and on of other subjects related in Equity of trade and of Investment request respectfully that the Committee be authorized to clerical the services of lawyers , of counsel technical and of all other staff felt necessary to the purposes of his inquiry .
pursuant to the section Procedural of the appended divesting the funding of the Comit?s of the Senate , the budget presented to the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration therefore that the report if there 2:07 , are appended to the present report .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
JOHN B . STEWART
( the text of the Printed found to the Journals of the Senate of today today , Printed to A to , p
72 )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when taken - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Stewart , the study of the report is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
Affairs foreign
the amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North - Presented of the report budget of the Committee regarding the study
the hon. John B . Stewart , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign , presented the report following :
the Tuesday 2 November 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign has the honour of present his
third REPORT
your Committee , who has been authorized by the Term Thursday 14 October 99 , pursuant to the section 86 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , to examine for in do report the ramifications for the Canada :
of the amendment embraced to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North ( NATO ) and to the role of the Canada in the NATO since the disbanding of the alliance of Warsaw , of the end of the War Cold and of the entry recent in the NATO of the Hungarian , of the Poland and of the Republic tch?que ; and
2 . of the keeping of the peace , particularly the ability of the Canada of there participate under the auspices of not important what body international whose the Canada fact part , request respectfully that the Committee be authorized to clerical the services of lawyers , of counsel technical of all other staff felt necessary , and to if adjourn to across the Canada and to the abroad to the purposes of his inquiry .
pursuant to the section Procedural of the appended divesting the funding of the Comit?s of the Senate , the budget presented to the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration therefore that the report if there 2:07 , are appended to the present report .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
JOHN B . STEWART
( the text of the Printed found to the Journals of the Senate of today today , Printed to B to , p
78 )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when taken - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Stewart , the study of the report is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
the Committee of selection
Presented of the third report
the hon. L?once Mercier , chairman of the Committee of selection , presented the report following :
the Tuesday 2 November 99
the Committee of selection has the honour of present his
third REPORT
pursuant to the sections 85 ( 1 ) has ) and 85 ( 2 ) of the Rules of the Senate , your Committee informed the Senate that he if is met for discuss of the appointment of a Senator to the position of Speaker to payments lengths .
your Committee not has not took of decision to this about and he will report to the Senate certified .
respectfully submitted ,
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when taken - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Mercier , the study of the report is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
the Clerk of the Senate
referred of the accountability annual to the Committee of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the adjournment
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until to tomorrow , the Wednesday 3 November 99 , to 13 p.m. 30 .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the speech of the Throne
the directed in response - Position end of the debate the eighteenth day of sitting - Notice of motion
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Wednesday 3 November 99 , I move :
that the deliberations to the Order of the day for the resuming of the debate on the motion seconded to the Adopted of a Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne , sir by His Excellency the Gouverneure general before the two Houses of the Parliament , if remission the eighteenth day of sitting where the Order will been debated .
the bill on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
his Hon. the Speaker announcement that he has received of the Commons a message informed of the bill of bill C - 7 , Act amend the Act on the stopped judicial and a other bill in consequential .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the Thursday 4 November 99 . )
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
first Reading
his Hon. the Speaker announcement that he has received of the Commons a message informed of the bill of bill C - 6 , Act designed to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of means electronic for communicate or registering of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the Instruments regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the Thursday 4 November 99 . )
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in implement of conventions tax
first Reading
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) presented the bill of bill S - 3 , Act rigour in implement a agreed , of the conventions and of the protocoles conclude between the Canada and the Kyrghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzb?kistan , the Syria , the Japan and the Luxembourg , in view of avoid the duplicates Socialist and of prevent the evasion tax in Equity of taxes on the income .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the Thursday 4 November 99 . )
bill of bill on the perquisitions and the saisies international
first Reading
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin presented the bill therein S - 4 , Act incorporate the Authorized judicial pre to the requests of perquisitions or of saisies to the outside of the Canada before be presented to a organization or authority foreign or international .
( the bill of bill is read a first time )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Nolin , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the Thursday 4 November 99 . )
the Act on the Parliament of the Canada
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein presented the bill therein S - 5 , Act amend the Act on the Parliament of the Canada ( poet official of the Parliament ) .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Grafstein , the deuxi?melecture of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the jourdu Thursday 4 November 99 . )
the Code criminal
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , I have the honour of present , to the step of the first Reading , the bill of bill S - 6 , Act amend the Code criminal relatively to the harassment criminal and to of other subjects related .
this bill of bill is identical to the bill of bill S - 17 who is death to the Paper to the end of the last session Parliamentary .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
the Senator Oliver :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 57 ( 1 ) f ) of the Rules , I move that the second Reading of the bill of bill be placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting of the Senate .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the leave is - she granted ?
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
could - I know why he must ask the leave ?
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave not is not granted .
the Senator Cools :
honourable senators , I am oddly .
I am prepared to give the leave if I can know why .
when the parrains of a bill of bill looking the leave of the Senate , the senators should know why they the doing .
his Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Cools , I regret , but he not can not there have of debate on the motion .
however , if this is a question of information , this is all to fact legitimate , if the Senate is of agreed .
we have already had of the situations where a Senator asked the leave and a other Senator wanted know why .
honourable senators , souhaitez - you that the question be raised ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Oliver :
you has heard a sure number of witnesses and you has 87.6 of the evidence .
I like be in legislation of speak of that , of say if yes or not you can consider that these evidence have already been heard in the framework of the study of the bill of bill that I just of present .
I like do that tomorrow .
the Senator Cools :
of agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( on the motion of the Senator Oliver , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 57 ( 1 ) f ) of the Rules , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
bill of bill on the Assent Royal
first Reading
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) presented the bill of bill S - 7 , Act Current to the guideline of granting by the Gouverneure general , to the behalf of Majesty Majesty , of the Assent Royal to the bills of bill adopted by the Houses of the Parliament .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Staunton - Lynch , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the sitting of the Thursday 4 November 99 . )
the Act on the Immigration
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the hon. Ron Ghitter presented the bill of bill S - 8 , Act amend the Act on the Immigration .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Ghitter , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the s?ancedu Thursday 4 November 99 ) .
the Code criminal Position Act on the system Correctional and the implementation in freedom under condition
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
his Hon. the Speaker announcement that he has received of the Commons a message informed of the bill of bill C - 247 , Act amend the Code criminal and the Act on the system Correctional and the implementation in freedom under condition ( diversion consecutive ) .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Cools , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the s?ancedu Tuesday 9 November 99 . )
the Senate
Tabled of the report of the delegation of the Senate in Republic Kirghize
the hon. Nicholas W . Taylor :
Affairs foreign
notice of motion designed to Authorize the Committee to Services of the staff
the hon. John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Wednesday 3 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , personnel , employees of office or other elements necessary for examine the bills of bill , the substance of the bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have been removed .
notice of motion designed to Authorize the Committee to allow the Electronic Electronic of his business
the hon. John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Wednesday 3 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign be authorized to allow the meaning of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
review of the policy Canadian antidrogues
notice of motion Authorize the training of a Committee Senate Special
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 4 November 99 , I move :
that a Committee Special of the Senate be formed order of reassess the laws and the political Canadian antidrogues , of consult substantially the population Canadian for determine the needs speak of the different regions of the country more particularly there where the problems social related to the Control and to the use of the drugs uniform are the more overcoming , of develop of the proposals for according any information Current to the policy Canadian antidrogues and , finally , of produce of the recommendations for in arrive to the Adopted of a strategy antidrogues implementation to the point by and for the Canadians encouraging all the levels of government to work in closely cooperation to the reduction of the mischief related to the consumption of drugs uniform .
without that this who following gave for effect of happen his mandate , that the Committee be authorized to :
- review the approach agreed by the government federal for combat the consumption of drugs uniform to the Canada , his effectiveness as average of reduce the effects of the consumption of stup?fiants and the legislation in which his application is fair ;
- develop a policy national of reduction of the mischief order of relieve the impacts negative of the consumption of drugs uniform to the Canada and do of the recommendations on the way of apply this policy , including the possible of consider before all the use and the abuse of drugs as a problem socio - sanitaire ;
- study the models of reduction of the mischief adopted by of other country and determine , if he there would held , of the apply partially or contributor , to the Canada ;
- examine the role and the obligations international who describes to the Canada in under of the conventions of the Nations Nations on the stup?fiants , of the Declaration Fundamental of the collaborated of the man and of of other treaties related order of determine if these treaties the embark to take of the measures other that the prosecutions criminal and the p?nalisation of the Offenders to the wide international ;
- urge the effects of the fibre on the health and study the question of know if the employment of political alternatives to the about of the use of the fibre conduirait to a increase of the use and of the abuse to short and to long term ;
- study the possible that the government logjam of the power of regulatory that him authority the Act on the contraventions as average Supplementary of apply a policy of reduction of the mischief as he is of use in of other juridictions ;
- study any other question Current to the policy Canadian antidrogues that the Committee Justice appropriate for accomplish his mandate .
that the Committee Special be composed of five senators and that the quorum be of three members ;
that the Committee gave the power of do appear of the persons and of produce of the documents , of hear of the witnesses , of do report of time to other and of do print to the day the day documents , Crosbie and evidence according the instructions of the Committee ;
that the Crosbie received and the evidence heard during of the review of the bill of bill C - 8 , Act Authorize on the regulatory of some drugs and of their aspirin therefore that of other marine by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional during the second session of the 30 fifth Parliament ensure An to the Committee ;
that the Committee be authorized to Authorize , if he the Justice timely , the television , the authorize and the Electronic by the through of the media electronic of the radio or of a part of his deliberations and of the information that he holds ;
that the Committee be authorized to sit during the adjournments of the Senate in under of the subsection 95 ( 2 ) of the Rules of the Senate ;
that the Committee presented his report final to the more later three years after the date of his creation .
the federalism and the globalization
notice of inquiry
the hon. rald - A .
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Tuesday 9 November 99 , I refer to the attention of the Senate , to the light of the debates who have had held to the opportunity of the Forum of the f?d?rations , the great principles of the federalism modern .
review of the Act Canadian on the protection of the environment
notice of motion
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 4 November 99 , I move :
that the Senate urge the government to / on - the - cast his review of the Act Canadian on the protection of the environment and to serves the first step of this review to the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural .
office of specifications of the environment for the children
notice of motion constitutive
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Wednesday 3 November 99 , I move :
that the Senate urge the government to tough a office of specifications of the environment for the children , be a body independent responsible of promote the protection of the children against the risks environmental .
the Defence national
notice of motion Authorize creation of a Committee Senate Special responsible of examine the conduct of the staff to the during of the mission in Somalia and the destruction of issues medical of the staff in mission in Croatia
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the 16 November 99 , I move :
that a Committee Special of the Senate be set order of investigate and of do report on two questions important who touch the conduct of the chain of command of the Forces Canadian , many in the operations on the theatre that to the Headquarters General of the Defence national : this is - to - say his reaction to the problems operational , Deployment and administrative who if are manifest?s to the during of the deployment of forces in Somalia , in the legislation where these questions not have not been depth by the Commission of inquiry on the deployment of the Forces Canadian in Somalia ; and the allegations according expelling of the troops Canadian have been set to of the marine toxic in Croatia between 1993 and 1995 of even that the allegations of destruction of the issues medical of military forwarded in Croatia ;
that the Committee , in the review of the questions previous , be authorized to questions of the witnesses who , according him , could contributing to the conduct of the inquiry , including , but not exclusively :
the present Minister of the Defence , further to the two questions sp?cifi?es ;
2 . of former ministers of the Defence , further to the two questions sp?cifi?es ;
4 . the Leader of cabinet by int?rim of the Minister of the Defence national to the then , further to the incidents Own in Somalia ;
6 . the advisor Special of the Minister of the Defence national to the then ( J .
Denise ) , further to the incidents Own in Somalia ;
7 . the persons having served the position of Justice - lawyer General during the period concern?e , further to the incidents Own in Somalia ;
8 . the Justice - lawyer General Deputy - Litiges to the then , further to the incidents Own in Somalia ; and
9 . the Leader of state - Staff of the Defence and the under - Leader of state - Staff of the Defence to the then , further to the two questions sp?cifi?es .
that seven senators appointed by the Committee of selection confrontation the duties of members of the Committee Special , and that three constitute the quorum ;
that the Committee be authorized to call of the persons , to do produce of the documents and of the issues , to hear of the witnesses Connolly , to do report of time to other and to do print to the day the day documents and evidence according the instructions of the Committee ;
that the Committee be authorized to Authorize , if he the Justice timely , the television and the authorize of the radio or of a part of his deliberations ;
that the Committee be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , professionals , personnel , employees of office or of other persons necessary , for the help to lead his study ;
that the parties political represented to the Committee Special receive a allowance for the contribution of experts to the business of the Committee ;
that the Committee be authorized to travel to the within and to the outside of the Canada ;
that the Committee be authorized to sit during the sittings and the cong?s of the Senate ;
that the Committee please his report a year to the more after his training and that , if the Senate not seat not to the time where the report is tabled , extend - side be considered as having been tabled the day where he is left to the Clerk of the Senate .
the funding of the education post
notice of inquiry
the hon. Norman K . Atkins :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 4 November 99 , I call the attention of the Senate on the funding of the education post to the Canada , particularly the part of the funding that supportent the students , in view of develop of the political who viseront to amoindrir the burden of the debts of the students to the level post to the Canada .
the Conference on the equality of the women and their participation to the life public
notice of inquiry
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 4 November 99 , I call the attention of the Senate on my participation recent to the 70e anniversary of the case to human to , in the framework of the Conference on the equality of the women and their participation to the life public to the Canada and to the Kingdom - U , who if is held the 21 and 22 October 99 , to London , in England .
the Canadians eminent and their role to the Kingdom - U
notice of inquiry
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , pursuant to the paragraphs 56 ( 1 ) , 56 ( 2 ) and 57 ( 2 ) of the Rules , I give notice that Thursday next , the 4 November 99 , I call the attention of the Senate on :
has ) the persons valour to the Canada who have sat to the House of the Commons of the Kingdom - U , there including the Tremblay of the Ontario Edward Blake , Minister of the Justice of the Canada of 1875 to 1877 and Leader of the Party Liberal of the Canada of 1880 to 1887 , the Tremblay of the New - Brunswick the very hon. Bonar Law , Prime Minister of the Kingdom - U of 1922 to 1923 , and the Tremblay of the Ontario Sir Bryant Irvine , deputy - chairman of the House of the Commons of the Kingdom - U of 1976 to 1982 ;
b ) the persons valour to the Canada who have sat to the House of the Lords of the Kingdom - U , there including the tr?shon. Richard B . Bennett , Prime Minister of the Canada of 1930 to 1935 , and Lord Beaverbrook , Minister of the Kingdom - U in 1918 and of 1940 to 1942 ;
c ) the British of birth Regarding to the Kingdom - U or in the dominions and colonies who have sat to the Senate and to the House of the Commons of the Canada , there including the tr?shon. John Turner , Prime Minister in 1984 and Leader of the Opposition Liberal of 1984 to 1990 , and me - even , Senator black in fiscal born in the Antilles British ;
d ) the persons of citizenship Canadian who have fact part of the Council private of the Kingdom - U , there including the first ministers of the Canada , the judges in Leader of the Court Supreme and some ministers Canadian whose the Leader of the government to the Senate of 1921 to 1930 and of 1935 to 1942 , the tr?shon. Senator Raoul Dandurand , who has been appointed to the Council private of the Kingdom - U in 1941 ;
e ) the resolution Nickle of 1919 , a motion of the House of the Commons of the Canada in view of a directed to Majesty Majesty the king George V , and the comments that the Prime Minister R . B . Bennett has held in 1934 to his about :
to this was also inefficient in right that possible .
not only this was inefficient , but this was also , I regret of the say , a affront to the sovereign him - even .
not important what lawyer of right constitutional or anyone if give the worthy of study this question if in makes well account . to ;
f ) the comments that the Prime Minister R . B . Bennett has held in 1934 in a letter to the member J . R . MacNicol :
to as that I resterai citizen of the infested British and loyalist about of the king , I hear recognize to the sovereign the prerogative of recognize the services of his subjects . to
g ) the many distinguished Canadians who have since 1919 received of the honours of the king or of the Queen of the Canada , there including the Dreadnought to the Order of the chevalerie in 1934 of Sir Lyman Duff , Justice in Leader of the Court Supreme of the Canada , in 1935 of Sir Ernest MacMillan , musicien , in 1986 of Sir Bryant Irvine , Parliamentary , in 1994 of Sir Neil Shaw , industrial , and in 1994 of Sir Conrad Swan , advisor of the Prime Minister Pearson to the about of the flag national of the Canada ;
p.m. ) the many distinguished Canadians who have received 646 honours and astre of souverains foreign not British and not Canadian between 1919 and February 1929 ;
i ) the Position legal and constitutional of the Canadians of birth and of citizenship regarding their ability or their inaptitude to sit to the House of the Lords and or to the House of the Commons of the Kingdom - U , including the Canadians domicili?s to the Kingdom - U and beyond of the double citizenship of the Canada and of the Kingdom - U ;
j ) the Position legal and constitutional of the Canadians domicili?s to the country or to the abroad regarding their right of receive of the honours and of the distinctions of their own sovereign , the Queen Elizabeth II of the Canada , therefore that their right of receive of the honours and of the distinctions of souverains other that the their , there including the sovereign of the France the honour of the Order Alaska of the Legion of honour ;
problem ) the honours , the distinctions and the astre who not are not h?r?ditaires as the prize to life , the Dreadnought to the Order of the chevalerie and the levels military and of chevalerie ;
l ) the recommendation by the Prime Minister British Tony Blair to Majesty Majesty the Queen Elizabeth II Authorize of appoint as member not h?r?ditaire of the House of the Lords Conrad Black , a distinguished publisher and entrepreneur Canadian and Colonel Honorary of the Governor General' St. Foot Guards of the Canada .
the access to the data of the census
Presented of Petitions
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the honour of present a petition of the Ontario Genealogical Society who has been signed by per persons and who request in part follows :
... the petitioners concurrence the Parliament of adopt a bill order of preserve the data of the marked of after 1901 , of the withdraw of the Archives national and of put these data and those of the marked ult?rieurs to the clause of the public to the across of 92 years , this who is currently consistent to the many provisions legislation on the protection of the information personal and to the soon currently in force .
the business of the Senate
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I bring a statement more later today today to the about of the Order to the Rules that the Senator Staunton - Lynch has raised the other day .
however , I like go this opportunity for attention some problems that valid our Rules .
however , I not think not that this be this that the Senate wish .
I want simply attention that he must correct these anomalies in our Rules .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Agency Canadian of the customs and of the income
the changes of the Benefit tax national for children - Changes effects on the providers
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the spring last , I have drew the attention of the Senate on a defaults of structure of the Prestation tax national for children in the case of the families to low income having more of three children .
to the intention of the Leader of the government , I will airing of new the problem .
in 2001 , the government will eliminate phase the Prestation tax national for children according a rate of clawback of 11 per for the families having a child , of 19,7p. per for the families having two children and of 27,6p. per for the families of three children or more .
let this who happen to a mother Leader of family of four children who lives to Halifax , in Nova - Nova , and whose the income family is of 30 100,000 $ , if she has the possible of gain per $ in doing of the p.m. additional , a time that the last changes discuss been Regional to the Benefit in 2001 .
honourable senators , I will you read few figures .
I have already left copy of these figures to the Leader for that he can me follow .
he there has then the appropriation of tax subordonn?s to the income .
honourable senators , in the speech of the Throne , the government has announced a aspire of two billion of $ of the Prestation national for children , the details before be releases certified .
the Leader of the government can - he we say if the government has the intention of examine seriously how totalisent the different taxes and the are incorporated before of propose his past changes to the Prestation national for children ?
the government can - he give to the Senate the insurance that he Technicolor this inequity particularly serious for the population of the Nova - Nova ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator Oliver of me have left a copy of these calculus a little before my arrived to the Senate .
I know that the Senator has to heart the example that he has given .
I am happy that the Senator gave mentioned the increase Annual of two billion of $ of the Prestation tax national for children who has been portion in the last Budgets , therefore that the assistance Annual of almost of 7 billion of $ whose the families benefit through to this Benefit , to rely of July 2000 .
the hon. Senator has recognized that , and we we differ all two for say that he if is there of a legislation government very important .
I like also add that , for a family who account two children , the Benefit maximale is of 3 750 $ , this who represents a increase of 1,200 per by report to the Benefit maximale of 1996 .
I know that the hon. Senator if pleased of the progress that we have obviously .
honourable senators , he me int?ressera certainly of speak of the example precise .
I am course that the government incorporated account of all the factors that the Senator has whereas .
for this who respect this example particular , I will me enqu?rir deposited of the various parties and I then ensure to the Senator that his concern will passed to the authorities appropriate .
the Senator Oliver :
the Minister agree certainly with me that , when a mother of four children who trying of gain per $ of more if groups with only 16,84 $ , the government must do someone something for try of remove of the provisions of clawback .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am of agreed with the Senator .
we not want certainly not accepting a mother only of four children in this situation of try of gain per $ of more .
in all the deduction who have been pointed , I me request if the premium to the Plan of Pension of the Canada , by example , if applies to all the levels of income or if he there has a level of income accomplishing beyond - beyond wherein she not if applies not .
as I not pretend not be a expert in the Equity , I like power in discuss with of the persons averties .
I envisaged certainly the spirit of the observation that presented the Senator .
the Nations Nations
the disarmament nuclear - Position policy of the government opposite to the resolution of the New Agenda Coalition
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate , that I congratulate for his appointment and to who I wish all the success possible .
the 19 April last , in his response to the report of the Committee Standing of the Affairs foreign and of the trade international , the government of the Canada if pursuit to work with the New Agenda Coalition for achieve some objectives in Equity of disarmament nuclear .
the 26 October last , the New Agenda Coalition has presented a resolution to the first commission of the Assembly general of the Nations Nations .
... to the States pool of weapons nuclear of if Services without definitive to proceed handcuff and in radio to the Elimination of their arsenaux nuclear and of / without delay of the negotiations and of the lead to well quickly , parvenant therefore to the disarmament nuclear referred they are held pursuant to the section VI of the Treaty on the not - proliferation of the weapons nuclear .
before that the Minister not changing , honourable senators , I like , if you me the let , table in the two languages official the resolution that the New Agenda Coalition has introduced to the first commission of the Assembly general of the Nations Nations the 22 October 99 .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted for table the statement ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank the hon. Senator Roche of his question .
I the thank also for this that he has said before on the role of the Canada in the efforts of keeping of the peace in the world .
these comments crumpled particularly to point .
in this who has relates to the question specific that the hon. Senator has raised , I am course that the Minister of the Affairs foreign and of the Trade international chair carefully , in time and held , the Position of the government and that he the obey public in time wanted .
I happy happy of the do know then to the hon. Senator .
the Senator Roche :
in analysant the text of the resolution , I not find nothing who be entities with the policy of the government Canadian .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I me bring a happy of take knowledge of the researchers that has tabled the hon. Senator and of do share of his comments to the ministers competent .
the Defence national
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I have several questions to ask to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the Senator Graham me miss , but I you wish the welcome , Mr. , and you wish good fortunate .
hence specifically 1 196 days that the Senator Graham me has promised that to very , very soon to , to plead to , to in the few days to come to , you annoncerait the Alternative of the helicopters bidding .
yesterday , the Minister of the Affairs foreign has qualified the Estimates paramount in Equity of Defence of to ennuyeuses to .
honourable senators , a submarine very patient not could not be dialysis of his ship to the broad of the Coast is of the Nova - Nova because the Sea King of the HMCS Fredericton not is not Operational , all as the Sea King to board of the HMCS Ville of Quebec , and that he not there has not of Sea King to Shearwater .
the Minister is - he of agreed with the Minister of the Affairs foreign when extend - side identifies the Estimates of Defence of ennuyeuses ?
if concern he of the well - be of our military , who dependent of a equipment course and reliable ?
in fact , he is almost immoral of let these had steal .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
the Senator Forrestall raises the question of a submarine who if is found in a situation difficult .
according my sources , this submarine is in considering of if restore soon to the Hospital .
however , that not meets not to the question raised by the hon. Senator .
I have had of the discussions with the Minister of the Defence national , who me has indicated that the Alternative of the helicopters is a simultaneously priority .
I sharing certainly this point of view with the Minister of the Defence national and I not m?nagerai not my efforts for me ensure that the mechanisms voulus ensure in place order of replace these helicopters .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , I believe understand that the Leader of the government to the Senate if is now committed to spend many of time to if preoccupied of the problems faced the Shipping in particular must do opposite that to try of redorer the blason Liberal in our wonderful province .
the West Scotia Scotia Regiment - Position appointment of a Colonel Honorary
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I like ask a question on a about who goes to almost three years .
the West Scotia Scotia Regiment expected since well more of two years the appointment of a new Colonel Honorary .
that fact long that this regiment very color? not has not of Colonel Honorary .
if the Minister not has not of information today today , and this could well be the case , his officials and him - even could - they check if this appointment can be made the more quickly possible ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I rise to the seriously the remontrances of the hon. Senator who means that we am?liorions the situation of the Shipping on the Coast Atlantic .
for this who is of redorer the blason of the Party Liberal , however , I wish to him say that the two things not are not necessarily conflicting .
in this who has relates to the regiment whose talking the Senator , I not floor answer of way specific .
I will therefore take his question in note and I him fournirai of the information to this about more later .
between - time , if the Senator has of the suggestions to the about of a Colonel Honorary , I happy happy of in do share to the authorities lookout .
the agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Position visit of the delegation to Ottawa - Changes anomalies in the statistics
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , the first ministers of the Manitoba and of the Saskatchewan are came here to Ottawa for ask to the government of come in assistance to the farmers .
our Prime Minister and his government have fact know that according the statistics the situation not would not if bad and that he not is therefore not necessary that the government confer a assistance Supplementary to the farmers .
however , these statistics not have not been communiqu?es to those who are came ask of the assistance .
the Leader of the government to the Senate could - he user of his good boards for if ensure that the Minister of the Agriculture obey public the statistics in because for that we can the examine ?
when I have examined the statistics Authorize on the Saskatchewan , they me have seemed very clear and I am appropriate that of other will of agreed with me to this about .
as all the know well , the costs of production are two time more high that the price of sales .
the Minister can - he we say if we able a day see these data shadows on expelling the Prime Minister if support ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Agriculture have met the first ministers of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba therefore that the delegations who the accompagnaient .
he seemed there have a some confusion further to the figures on expelling the two parties if appuyaient .
we tried of rationaliser these data and I not can that assume that the data rationalis?es will complete public soon .
however , I not like not let believe that , because that he there had difference of opinions relatively to some figures in because , the government not instead not of other measures .
this would there a conclusion many too h?tive .
the Senator Spivak :
honourable senators , the Prime Minister of my province is oversees am?rement Whip .
I know that a Committee if circumstances on the figures .
however , the assistance demand?e by the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan was , as the Minister the knows perfectly , of 1.3 billion of $ .
I have d?duit of the conversations that I have liberty with the persons who are attack see the Prime Minister , therefore that of the spreads published in the press and of the documents published to the following of a identifies in the National Financial , whose we know that he not if wrong never , that the government not wisely not of give a assistance of this importance , that to his notice , she not was not necessary for resolve the crisis .
in fact , the response is a not without definitive .
the Minister has he someone something to we say today today who indiquerait that this not is not there the attitude of the government ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the government has grappling someone 900 million of $ to the program ACRA .
the provinces have fact a contribution of slightly million of $ .
in more of this amount , the delegation has asked a assistance Supplementary of 1.3 billion of $ .
I think that all the world is of agreed there - above .
the response of the government has been that he not relaxed not that the you could consider a assistance of 1.3 billion of $ .
I not think not that he gave changed of notice .
however , he would compassionate of conclude that no assistance not is disposable .
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Changes representations presented to the Prime Minister
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I know perfectly of what talking the Minister .
I you greetings their point of view .
to the namely of other senators , I me am personally entretenue with several delegations .
they the have liked .
gold , until to present , nothing not we allows of believe that this will fact .
the Minister signalera he to the Prime Minister and to his cabinet that the moral is to the more lower , to the Manitoba ?
the population of the province if believe marginaux and little stick of the attention granted to all the other regions of the country .
I not am not of their notice .
the Minister will he also share of the sense who starts to poindre to the Manitoba ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I guaranteed personally to the hon. Senator that his remarks will ensued to the Prime Minister to the first opportunity .
well that you gave Allocation to the ACRA a amount of money important , be someone 1.5 billion of $ , and well that 36 100,000 requests shifted been showed in the framework of this program , he there has had of the complaints further to the fact that this money not has not been d?bloqu? as he the would should for answer effectively to the needs .
of the concerns have also been address further to the fact that the amount Allocation to this program could not not be sufficient .
all these remarks are taken to the seriously .
the government the examine with attention .
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Conformity effectiveness of the program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate has indicated that the ACRA works well .
the message that we envoient the farmers of the Western Canadian is that he if can that he works well elsewhere , but that he not agreeable not for resolve the problems that familiar the Saskatchewan and the Manitoba .
this message has been Message to the Prime Minister federal by the a of the two first ministers provincial to the least .
why the request of remanier the ACRA introduced by the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan not has she not been received Right ?
why has you fact hope to the first ministers of these provinces that he there would of the new ?
why have - they been attir?s to Ottawa for if do say a time of more that the government going study the case ?
after of the months of tergiversations , is - this there a way of do tra?ner the things for that he not rest more a only family of farmers ?
is - this there the plan secret of the government ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , for the radical of the hon. Senator , I not have not said that the ACRA operated Allison well and not had not need of improvements .
this that I have said , this is that this was a program important Computing billion of $ .
someone 36 100,000 farmers there have idea in soumettant a request .
to the least , they there have believed to a time given .
I think that all the world recognizes that the money dispens? by the through of this program not has not been circulated also effectively that he would could the be .
the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Agriculture taking the question to the seriously .
the talks that they have always with the first ministers provincial have confirmed this that they knew already .
I hope that of the improvements able be concerning to the programs existing and that you able find of other forms of assistance .
the Senator Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I have received of the calls of farmers who have fact a request in the framework of ACRA .
they me have said that that could take until to six months for have a response .
how the government can - he know if the program works well if the response that the farmers waiting desperately sometimes six months in behind ?
some of those who have fact a request in April or in May not receive that today today notification that they not are not eligible .
of where just the confidence that the government has in the ACRA ?
after consultation , the first ministers of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba are came to Ottawa convinced that their problem would took to the seriously , to the held of do the subject of studies additional .
they if formerly to this that the hailed who are to the board of the bankrupt ensure sauv?es .
a time that the farmers will parties , they not reviendront not .
this not is not a resources registration .
when they leaving the firm Bankers , they leaving the Saskatchewan . It destroyed the basic .
we not dishonour not of the even diversity that some other provinces , there including similar of the Leader of the government .
we d?pendons of the agriculture , of the least for the time .
when chair you the program ACRA of the point of view of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba , rather that of a point of view world ?
he not there has more of time to losing .
of other studies not are more necessary .
you can certainly establish here a 60 with the fishing , this that the Minister should understand .
you not can more expect .
the problem is criticism .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , her the Senator will pleased if I then the ensure that a such review has held in this time .
the Senator Andreychuk :
we not have not need of review .
the Senator Boudreau :
according her the Senator , and she not is probably not the only to have this opinion , the program not has not fonctionn? also well that he the could .
the Senator has spoke of delay in the treatment of the requests .
the government has took this question to the seriously .
hope that the results of this seriously review will prominent public very soon .
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Position visit of a delegation to Ottawa - Changes anomalies in the statistics
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
we talking of well of the things whose we not are not many to the aware .
however , a something that we know , this is that the farmers of the west of the Canada rely among the farmers the more productive , the more effective and the more commensurate to the world .
they grow of the products of the more high quality .
yet , without that they there ensure for someone something , they doing bankrupt .
that , we the know .
they are accul?s to the bankrupt and some if suicident .
the senators Sparrow , Gustafson , Spivak and Andreychuk speak of this problem since the fall 1998 . We in have spoke also in February , all as we the have fact in March , in April and in June .
the first ministers of these two provinces are then came pay visit to the government .
what months are - we ?
they have received of the figures of the Prime Minister and of the Minister of the Agriculture .
when they have asked of where scattering these figures , you their has said that they not could not the say .
I am a guys simple of the Prairies .
to my notice , the Minister must we say when these figures will prominent public and how this situation has could if produce .
of where scattering these figures ?
of the apologize should be presented to the two first ministers who have been treaties of the sort .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , he there has clearly a difference of views in this who respect the figures faced if are fi?s the two first ministers provincial and the Prime Minister .
I not believe not that this problem gave been resolved until to now .
all the efforts voulus will lending in view of between these figures and of pay public the way that a agreed has been concluded .
this is a very vast problem , as the knows the hon. Senator .
the Senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , the first ministers have said that all their figures performance to the data of Statistics Canada and of the Department federal of the Agriculture therefore that to the data that the government federal has communiqu?es to the great public .
when the you has asked to the government federal of explain the figures to the first ministers , they not have not been in legislation of the do .
he not enough not of say that he there has had a difference of views .
That not has not been the case .
the first ministers provincial have presentation a problem .
they have used the statistics and the figures that their has supplied the government of the Canada .
the government of the Canada has then said : to We have of other figures , but we not you examine not of where they come . to
this was a great not for him .
I think that the government of the Canada should present of the apologize to the two first ministers and if d?p?cher of we say when he thereon these figures and their source to the House of the Commons and to the Senate .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I attention the point of view of the Senator to the Minister of the Agriculture and to the Prime Minister .
more specifically , I believe that the Minister of the Agriculture provide a explanation .
of after the discussions that I have liberty with him , I me forward to this that he the convey directly .
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Changes impact economic of the dropping of the income agricultural
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the House .
the forecasts of the Department of the Agriculture and of the Agroalimentaire for 99 chiffraient the income agricultural net in Saskatchewan to least 48 million of $ , be the level the more low that he gave reached since 1933 , and that includes the Payments revenues of the insurance - crop , of the fund of stabilization of the income net and of the Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural .
the forecasts for the Manitoba if chiffraient to least per million of $ , the level the more low never reached to the during of the century , still more low that in the years 30 .
the frustration of the farmers and of the two first ministers provincial is enormous .
I am a farmer and I opposite among them .
we not can not we in slipping .
he must do someone something .
the situation will of serious impact national for the together of the Canada .
we sober a industry very culmination .
he not there has not of producers more effective to the world that the producers of grain of the west of the Canada .
the Leader of the government to the Senate , the members of the cabinet and the Prime Minister not if education - they not account that that will of serious impact national , not only in words of tentations of separation or of union to the States - United , but in words economic for the Canada ?
the substantially agricultural summoning by our farmers contribute for a good share to our gained commercial .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I then ensure the hon. Senator that the Prime Minister includes the importance of the sector agricultural for the together of the economy Canadian .
to worthy two weeks before my entry in service in this chamber respected , I have had the opportunity of go with the Bank of the Canada in Saskatchewan for there meet of the farmers and hear their representations .
I there have also fact a visit in a exploitation agricultural and I admire sincerely the activities , the effectiveness and the productivity of the farmers of the Prairies .
to the during of this visit , I me am realized account however of the magnitude of the problem .
this problem require more that a assistance government to short term .
he must that the farmers ensure on a foot of equality with their competitors across in the world and we must we strive for that they shifted of the opportunity playing .
they have poses in the past , and they the expect in the future , that if they have of the opportunity playing , they can strong well succeed .
I attention very clear to the hon. Senator that the Prime Minister , the Minister of the Agriculture and me - even are aware of the importance of the sector agricultural of the Western for the country all around .
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Position possible of a program of credit agricultural
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate Burmese - he the Presented to the cabinet of a clause designed to credit the debt to the Corporation of the credit agricultural ?
the government could the do , since the farmers jobs their bills if they have the money .
as you the knows , you invite the farmers to not not carry their taxes .
nine municipalities have decided to the average of a vote of not not pay their taxes .
I have spoke to the pr?fet of the municipality of Wellington .
according him , this not is not that the farmers deny of carry their taxes , but well that they are unable of the do .
they not can confidence of the money that they not have not .
the Leader of the government to the Senate agree - he of convey to the cabinet and to the Prime Minister the suggestion that they have taken to the seriously for resolve of a way or of a other the problem of the debt to the Corporation of credit agricultural ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , without violation the confidentiality of the cabinet , I can affirming that this question found currently to the program of the cabinet .
that not surprend hardly the hon. Senator , who is of elsewhere strong respected including to the within of the community agricultural .
I not close no difficulty to convey his representations to my colleagues to the within of the cabinet .
Library of the Parliament Langues official due of the regulatory
the committees abiding Standing - Message of the Commons
his Hon. the Speaker announcement that he has received of the Commons the message following :
he is ordered - That the committees abiding Standing of the House ensure snitch of the members whose the names listed side - after :
Library of the Parliament
members :
Assad , celebrating , Catterall , Cloutier , Finlay , Grey ( Edmonton - North ) , Harb , Karygiannis , Lavigne , Lill , Limoges , Mayfield , Mercier , Hamelin , Price , Redman - ( 16 )
members associated :
Davies , Dumas , Navan ( Rimouski - Mitis )
languages official
members :
B?langer , Bellemare , Chamberlain , of Savoye , Folco , Godin ( Acadie - Bathurst ) , Hill ( Macleod ) , Kilger , Lavigne , Mark , McTeague , McWhinney , Meredith , Muise , Hamelin , Serr? - ( 16 )
members associated :
Dumas , Mercier , Nystrom , Navan ( Rimouski - Mitis ) , Turp
review of the regulatory
members :
Assad , Bonwick , Bryden , Casey , Comuzzi , DeVillers , Epp , Grewal , Lebel , Murray , Nystrom , Pankiw , Pillitteri , Saada , Venne , Wappel , White ( North Vancouver ) - ( 17 )
members associated :
Bellehumeur , Dockrill , Guimond , Navan ( Rimouski - Mitis )
that a message be Message to the Senate order of inform the honourable senators of the names of the members who commit the House to the committees abiding Standing .
ATTEST? :
the business of the Senate
the statement of the Speaker on the granting of a leave to the during of the Affairs occasion and on the event of the 14 October 99
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , are - you of agreed for that I convey now the statement that the Senator Staunton - Lynch me has asked of do to the about of the Affairs occasion during of the last sitting ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the 14 October , during the Affairs occasion , the Senator Hays has asked the leave of present , to the step of the notice of motions of the government , a motion in view of extend the adjournment of the Senate .
the leave him has been granted , but soon that the question has been implementation in discussion , he there has had a some confusion further to the procedure to follow .
to the end , the motion increasing the adjournment of two weeks has been agreed and the Senate is past to other something .
however , when the Order of the day has been called , the Senator Staunton - Lynch has asked to the Speaker of clarify the question order of avoid any confusion to the future .
I thank many the Senator Staunton - Lynch of have raised the question , I believe that this is important .
following to this request , I have well thought to the question and I am now prepared to me deal on my interpretation of the application of the rules and lightweight of the Senate .
in my statement , I me am tried of examine the more of case possible , but I not am not course of have covered all the 870 .
in addition , this review will licences of met some flaws and incoh?rences in the Rules , on expelling the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure should if dealt .
the formula current of the Affairs occasion fact part of the procedure of the Senate since 1991 .
this year - there , the Rules of the Senate has been amended for draw the Order in which the questions of the Affairs occasion would appel?es to the following of the statements of senators .
this Order is established to the subsection 23 ( 6 ) .
the section limit by elsewhere that the questions of privilege and the points to the Rules are await to the step of the Affairs occasion and that all vote by appeal recorded asked is order to 17 p.m. 30 , except in case of motion without debate made without notice .
of other provisions of the section indiscriminately the hour to which if incorporated the period of the questions and the hour to which the Order of the day will called if the time expected for the Affairs occasion is extensions .
the period of the Affairs occasion includes the Presented of reports of committees Standing or special , the notice of motions of the government , therefore that the notice of motions introduced by of other senators .
usually , the chairmen doing simply present their report and the senators limited notice of the motion .
but to the opportunity , the leave is demand?e of proceed on - the - cast , or more later to the during of the day , to the discussion of the report of a Committee .
of even , to the step of the notice of motions , the chairman of a Committee ask the leave of present a motion for allow to his Committee of if meet to a time where the Senate could be in sitting .
these past years , all the duration where the Senate seat , the Leader Deputy of the government request almost requests the leave of present a motion for that the Senate if circumstance to 13 p.m. 30 the Wednesday rather that to 14 p.m. .
each time that he is asked of d?roger to the procedure of the Affairs occasion , he if is of a notice in application of the sections 57 or 58 .
the leave is granted if no Senator present in the Room not if there objects .
if a only if there objects , the question not can be desire before the end of the deadline formed .
in addition , if the leave is granted , the Adopted of the report or of the motion is proposed on - the - cast , except if the request move of in until the review to more later to the during of the day .
when the question Current to the report or to the motion is implementation to the Senators , she is sujette to debate .
the fact that these questions massive a notice evidence clear that they are subject to debate .
no report of Committee or motion of extension who is developed to the Senators not is soustrait to the possible of a debate .
the fact that the motions presented with the leave of the Senate to the step of the Affairs occasion not are rarely or never debatable not means not that they not carry not the be .
only the motions presented without notice not can be debatable .
a time the debate in during , all the rules divesting the debates are applicable , there including the possible of a point to the Rules .
that keeps to the fact that in accepting that the question be implementation to the Senators , the S?ant if is of this fact ruled of the Affairs occasion for the length of the debate , until to this that he be tranch? or adjourned .
to my sense , the restriction of the subsection 23 ( 1 ) , 1604 the points to the Rules or the questions of privilege to the step of the Affairs occasion , not if applies not to the debate , met given that the Senate not is exactly more to the step of the Affairs occasion .
if , by elsewhere , a request of vote by appeal recorded is made to the end of the debate , the subsection 23 ( 3 ) limit that he will order to 17 p.m. 30 this day - there , except , well heard , if the leave is granted of the hold to a other time .
a other clause of the section 23 if applies even if a debate is in during .
the subsection 23 ( 7 ) provides that to the more later 30 minutes after the appeal of the Prime point of the Affairs occasion , the Senate must move to the period of the questions .
he is therefore possible that the review of the Affairs occasion or a debate in during on a point of the Affairs occasion be interrompu by the period of the questions .
of fact , this is this who if is product the 6 May 1993 when the debate in third Reading of the bill of bill C - 114 , amend the Act election of the Canada , has been asked immediately after the Presented of the report on the bill of bill , without amendment , by the Committee of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
to this opportunity , the bill of bill had received the step of the third Reading before the end of the deadline of 30 minutes for the Affairs occasion preceding the period of the questions .
the Senate is then past to the review of the Order of the day without return to the Affairs occasion .
hence therefore in big this who can if move when the Senate accept of welcome a motion to the step of the Affairs occasion .
I hope that these Particulars you enable of better understand this aspect of our procedures .
this who if is past the Thursday 14 October last , when the Senator Hays has asked the leave of present a motion designed to extend the adjournment of the Senate , was therefore consistent to our rules and lightweight .
Order OF orders
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Vodrey , seconded by the hon. Senator Furey , seconded to the Adopted of a Adresse to His Excellency the Gouverneure general in response to the speech that contemporaries has sir during of the openness of the second session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( 1 day of the resuming of the debate )
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , before all things , I wish today today to thank my predecessor , friend and extraordinaire of the Nova - Nova , the Senator Graham , of the excellent leadership that he has assured to the Senate to the during of the two past years .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Boudreau :
I him am grateful of the assistance and of the support generous that he me has accorded these past weeks , since my appointment , during expelling I have had enormous of things to learn .
I hear exorbitant without vergogne of the assistance that he has if generously proposed of continue to me give .
honourable senators , I before also the opportunity of thank the Senator Carstairs of the excellent work that she has accomplished during these two years to the position of Leader Deputy .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Boudreau :
I hope also advantage of his extensive knowledge and of his rich experience , to the time where we begin a new session of the Parliament .
the Senator Hays has been well Summer in me saying that he would strong difficult of satisfy to the standards exigeantes cut by the Senator Carstairs .
all two , we happen widely appeal to his sung in the days to come .
I wish to congratulate the senators Vodrey and Furey of the excellent speech that they have plebiscite for propose and support the Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne .
I me in like of not not add my congratulations to the many other that has showed our new Gouverneure general .
his appointment proves that the dream Canadian not is not only a dream ; he if is realized .
you can if rise until to the more senior positions to the country and contributing of way very calibre to our vision collective of the Canada .
what is this vision ?
the Prime Minister the has submitted therefore in his response to the speech of the Throne :
this is a Canada where each child is assured of a good departure in the life , where the young have the possible of if ?panouir and of enable their potential in the field of their choice , where the citizens have access to the knowledge and to the skills whose they have need for excel .
this is a Canada where the citizens , what that be their income , receive of the care of health of quality , where the families live in security in a environment widest , where we work of together with of other country to promote the peace , the diversity cultural and the supplemented of the new economy mondialis?e ...
this is a Canada who is a Leader and a model whose the world around can if sustains .
the strident say can - be that this are there of talk words and they if interrogeront can - be on their latitude real .
fortunately , these words have a very important latitude .
the government annual this vision through to the strategy who is stated in the speech of the Throne and to the words of which he if commitment to work in cooperation with the provinces and the territories for put to the point the Program national of action for the children .
he annual this vision in setting a plan of action national in Equity of skills and of learning for the 21 century .
he the annual by the through of initiatives designed to increase the access of the businesses Canadian to the markets world .
he the annual through to of the programs who improve to improve the infrastructure of the know of the Canada , including by the creation of the instituts Canadian of research in health , and in benefiting more the research of forefront .
he the annual in giving of the measures who features our infrastructure of the information unsurpassed .
he annual this vision in conclusion of the initiatives for improve our environment .
honourable senators , this vision of the Canada is enthousiasmante and she can become reality .
our country has received a turning .
we have developed of the Order in our Finance , our budget is balanced and he the remain .
as the Gouverneure general we the has said in the speech of the Throne :
the government is resolved to continue a policy of management financial prudent .
more never he not allow that the you perde the control of the Finance of the state .
he will in sort that the debt falling constantly by report to the product within gross .
he keeping the commitment took to the beginning of this Parliament of spend the half of the surplus budget to the reimbursement of the debt and to the relief of the taxes , and the other half to the investment 118.8 to answer to the needs social and economic of the Canadians .
honourable senators , he there has however of other realities in our country who require our attention .
I just of a region who , during of many years , has suffered of his ?loignement of the seat of the power economic and policy of the country .
the Cape - Cape , to payments of example , must Base completely his economy .
account held of this that recelait his under - soil , the Cape - Cape has seen his economy rest during of the generations on the mining of minerais who not are more exploitables of way effective to great wide , of the least not as they the have been in the past , and on the industry of the steel who seems now have lost his reason of be economic .
in reason of this accident geographical , the Cape - Cape not if is never fresher of a disease criticism of industries of manufacturing or of industries of services parallels for relentless to the addiction of these industries traditional substance on the resources min?rales .
the most of the regions have had several decades for if adapt to the new realities economic , but the time is a luxury that not has not the Cape - Cape .
he must if Base election .
he must do a great show in before in his development economic .
he must if propulser , almost of the day to the next , in the new age post - industrial .
I believe that the speech of the Throne contains a message of hope for the Cape - Cape and for the other regions similar of our great country .
in his speech , the Senator Furey has spoke of the identify who are in considering of if adjustments in his province , Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the Labrador .
he has said :
today today , Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the Labrador if 94 in the tourmente of the great changes technological and economic who balayent the world .
the people of this region not if suggest however not just ; they doing appeal to their skills and to their prior of long date for do opposite to the realities of the change quick .
through to their creativity , their resort , their solidarity , their determination and their fiercely to the work , they green their dreams and choose toward the before their province and their country .
the computers and the Internet can main the opportunity between the city and the campaign , between the centre of the Canada and the provinces 32 , between the rich and the poor .
recently , I have heard speak of a human who lives to Mount Pearl , to Newfoundland - Newfoundland , and who t?l?travaille for a business of launching of Los Angeles .
the place where lives this worker important little for his employer .
all this who account , this is his ability and his branchement Internet .
the population of my province , the Nova - Nova , the knows perfectly well .
in all the across of the province , he there has of the dozens of businesses in Technology of the information who are ready to if start on the Highway of the information .
the Scotians - Scotians are already on this Highway and some foncent to any memories toward the success .
the Prime Minister of the Canada has set the objective : do of the Canada a Leader world in the use inventive of the Electronic for do of the Affairs and encourage the expansion quick of the trade Electronic to the Canada .
honourable senators , the population of the Nova - Nova are the first to the Canada for this who is of the Purchase and of the sales of products by Internet .
we have quickly including the opportunities of the Internet and we in advancement .
I will you give a example .
in 1995 , when the market estate fighting of the wing , the leadership of two tours to offices jumelles in the centre - city of Halifax has known of seriously problems .
these buildings , who constituency the sixth of the local to offices of the centre - city of Halifax , were seriously under - used .
the leadership has then decided of take of great risks .
she has put the cable necessary to a access quick and of forefront to Internet .
therefore , in November 1998 , the buildings of Purdy' St. Wharf have dismantling the history in lone the Prime complex to the Canada provider of services Internet .
this is a vision , a initiative and a Investment who have reported .
in effect , Purdy' St. Wharf who continued eight businesses of Technology of the information occupying 35 100,000 feet square in 1995 welcome now 40 businesses similar , who roles a neatly of 120 100,000 feet square .
among his locataires , you find T & T Canada , Clear Picture Corporation , Fonorola , Fundy Communications , IBM Canada , iStar Internet , Knowledge Navigators International , Scotia Knowledge , ACC Canada and Xerox Canada , for not in appoint that few - each .
dark by a system of optic optic , a powerful stretch of data is developed to the clause of all the locataires , their ensuring 24 p.m. by day a access to Internet to little pr?s100 time more quick that the modems trap .
you has also put the intranet for allow the r?seautage between the locataires .
words said , the dispose has fishing a market estate moribond in opportunity of Affairs , opportunity who has created a centre of Technology to the heart of the city of Halifax .
the initiatives of this kind , as public that private , limited of good results .
to Halifax , the rate of unemployment for the months of September was of 6,2p. per , be the rate the more lower since the Second War World .
this rate is the even that extend of Toronto and he is Lower to the average national of honoraria per for September .
honourable senators , we have the ability necessary , and the government if reducing of do in sort that all the Canadians , little important where they live to the country , lags of the tools whose they have need for enable their potential .
the Prime Minister has been very clear in his speech in response to the speech of the Throne when he has said :
plug the Canadians - between them , with the schools and the library , with the culture , with the Administration public , with the trade and with the world - is the a of the major means of hisser the Canada to the range of great economy World and of continue to in do a country to the opportunities without limits .
we must basic to become the country the more branch? to the world .
still a time , the government has set of the aims very flowery for achieve this objective :
and for the help to regaining the use of the new technologies of the information , we recruterons until to 10 100,000 young Canadians who beat of the training to the citizens of all the unwelcome .
honourable senators , the skills and the training are essential if the you means power advantage of these new opportunities .
the government has announced that he ship of the partnerships with the other governments , the agencies public and private therefore that with the Canadians and the delay , order of establish a plan of action national in Equity of skills and of learning for the 21 century .
let - me of you quote a other committee of the speech of the seated :
our economy to basic of know represents more that of the companies of high Technology .
this is a economy who includes already of the grappes of development technologique in of small communities across to the Canada .
in reality , this is a economy to the within of which the Technology can ending to a more great stability economic in the regions primarily rural in expelling the industries of exploitation of the resources cycles - agriculture , fisheries , Forestry , mines and tourism - constitute the main sources of hampered .
the government favorisera the development and the Adopted of new technologies in all the sectors .
back - in to my own province .
how the Nova - Nova in commonly she ?
I you say of new that she in tirera of the benefits very flowery , honourable senators .
the sector of the energy is strong bode for the Canada Atlantic .
I have personally very good hope that he offered to the region of new sectors specified of research and of development to who , to their turn , could if publicize by of the opportunities and of the applications fascinantes to the outside of the Canada Atlantic .
the new Centre of excellence in Equity of development and of education in the sector of the Oil , established to the College university of the Cape - Cape , could serve of springboard to these activities of research and of development .
I have recently had the opportunity of announce the institution of the Institute of the Oil of the Canada Atlantic to the University Dalhousie to Halifax .
these institutions working already together and concoctent indeed of the alliances with of great institutions of the industry of the Oil elsewhere in the world .
of our days , the hailed agricultural intensity often to of the setting complex caract?ris?es by a growth manipul?e and of the Hempline not saisonni?res to great wide .
the industries traditional of exploitation of the resources , as those of the Forestry and of the mines , peer the influence of the research in biotechnologie .
he and fr?quent of be sitting behind a office allowing of complying the rivage in the coincidental of Lunenburg , then of cliquer on the bouton of a cat and of exchange of the information and of the ideas with of the people example of the other side of the planet .
honourable senators , he not enough not of show to our young to if serve of a computer or to programmer a logiciel .
we must open their eyes and their spirit to the potential of the world who we surrounding .
the government recognizes this fact .
in the speech of the Throne , the government announcement that he allow to the young Canadians of use their energy and their talents addition - sea in participant to of the programs international of worthwhile and in progressive the country in seaway of development to if plug on Internet .
these experiences can be of a great value , as the training concrete and direct that they business ; the knowledge learning in of other country and deposited of other Peoples ; the taken of conscience that the world is great but that the distance not must not we prevent of work together .
this are there of the lessons important who features our young , the leaders of tomorrow , Concludes to do furthermore our communities and our country in the 21 century .
this are there of the initiatives who can help as the small communities that the great centres urban .
I have many confidence in the Canadians , and they have of more in more confidence in them - same .
that they live to the environment of our great centre urbain or in a small village isolated of the Atlantic or still in full forest of the British - British , the message of the speech of the Throne is that the distance not has never been also little important in our history .
the government will in sort that the Canadians , where that they live , shifted access to the tools whose they have need for succeed in this new age post - industrial .
that will he easy ?
this not is never easy .
build this country not has , certainly , not been easy .
our ancestors have based this country in despite of a climate very rigorous , of the extensive disappear to launched , and of deep differences linguistic , cultural and religious .
what were the opportunity of success ?
they not acceptaient not of be vaincus by these difficulties .
we must to these pioneers who have imagin? this country and the have realized of do a dream for the century who just .
the new pioneers are well portants and live in the region of the Atlantic or across elsewhere to the Canada .
these new pioneers , who make the dream of the 21 century , not tolerate not the proph?tes of malheurs .
honourable senators , our Gouverneure general has sir a speech inspired to this House when she has tenure his new service .
she has said follows :
we not must not we see as a people who reacts to the trends , but as a people who the challenges .
we not must not we see as a people who reacts , but as a people who is .
the government has said his intention of see this country proud and prosperous driver the world in the next millennium and beyond - beyond .
we should all be privileged of be in legislation , in as that parliamentarians , of do in sort that that if annual .
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I wish to congratulate the Gouverneure general recently appointed and to him add all the success wanted in his new duties of representative of the Leader of the state Canadian .
Ms Clarkson unseemly to the a of our former colleagues who has brought a affects personal to a reminder ingrate and often little appr?ci?e to his fair value .
PuissentM. Rom?o LeBlanc and his gracieuse wife , Diana , largest a long retirement pleased on the settle of the Hormuz of Northumberland .
the policy can be also Dolly that grisante , and not only after of the election .
the reports between the different players , often d?natur?s by the ambitions personal , we sells often rudement to the unequalled .
the success of a party policy , and recognize of his Leader , what that ensure the d?convenues or the problems personal , is inexorably linked of the loyalty of the supporters .
honourable senators , these comments me come to the spirit to the following of the withdrawal sudden of the Senator Graham of his duties of Leader of the government to the Senate .
during his mandate , the commitment of the Senator to the regard of our institution and of the Nova - Nova not has never fact defaults each time that he if is acted for him of defend the objectives of the government and of his party .
his qualities of man of honour and of principles not have never many been implemented to the unequalled that the months last , and his conduct copy since in amending a new time the evidence .
that he me be licences of borrowing the thinking of Edmund Burke for express my reaction to the limogeage if preferring of the Senator Graham .
the magnanimit? in policy is often the single seaway of the wisdom and the settlement of a party policy is served by the spirit violate .
follows said , to the behalf of the members of our caucus and of me - even , I wish good fortunate to the Senator Boudreau to the position of Leader of the government .
however , his admission that he is here primarily for redorer the blason of his party in Nova - Nova , this that he has fact of way extraordinary in the speech that he has sir he there has few unflinching , is troublante because she raises of the questions on the from in this House not elected in appeals a reminder public ?lective .
the Senator Boudreau has said without ambages that he had the intention of be candidate to the House of the Commons to the next election .
this is to my notice as if a player of the League national of hockey reappoint uphill if do refer in a ligue mineure .
I hope that the Senator Boudreau apprendra soon to appreciate the importance and the accomplishments of the Senate and that he if obey account that this is in this House that the bills of bill are the better studied , where the spirit of party not is never too sir and where the supporters of the government , the ministers and the senators of second plan are all treaties as of the individuals and not as of the automates , and that they if complainants in consequential , free of the constraint cut to our colleagues in the other place .
the senators Vodrey and Furey , who have proposed and seconded the motion Current to the Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne , if are acquitt?s with great distinction and eloquence of their role .
he not met however not seek in their comments other something that a newest reference to the speech who has so pes? to His Excellency and who presented a contrast striking with extend that she has sir after his assermentation .
the Senator Vodrey in has fact little of case , not him focused that few 5:15 paragraphs , and we has given a indication of his commitment deep others his country and the government , this that has fact also the Senator Furey .
in fact , they not had not the choice before a speech whose you hallway as and who is immediately became a not - event .
this who would should be a vision for the century to come if is fishing in a litanie of platitudes .
the sense of anticipation daily on the Awaiting PQ of proposals concrete for solve the serious problems that we conclude currently .
gold , to the great surprise of all , the speech of the Throne has past under silence the agriculture of the Western , who facing the worse crisis since the years 30 , the fisheries , who are in coolest to of serious difficulties , the Immigration ill?gale , who trahit the failles of the legislation Canadian , the difficulties of the companies air that , even today today , the government rather that someone something called the to forces of the market to rule , and the reduction of the taxes who , if you d?chiffre the few words who there are spent , will occasion fair before the next election .
the poverty and the fate of the without - homeless not have hardly been whereas .
however , he there has two subjects who have been broader in the speech of the Throne and whose I like speak .
the Prime respect the statement according which the government not allow more never that the you perde the control of the Finance of the state .
he is rassurant of see that those - there even who were there to the then and who have deliberately left the Finance of the nation go to the squarely have ran by understand , even if That not has not been easy .
I think in particular to the Prime Minister who , in as that chairman of the Council of the Treasury and Minister of the Finance in the years 70 , has many contributed to the Submarine of the deficit budget , who has sextupl? , and of the debt public net , who has doubled .
this that the government not recognizes not , but whose all the world if makes of more in more account , this is that the good results obtained to the plans budget and Monetary are preventable to the fact that the you has continued of apply the political adopted by the governments Mulroney , experienced the Liberal were contrary to the then , to know the reduction of the Estimates of programs pursuant to the needs national real , the creation of a surplus of operating , the reduction of the rate of interest and a reduction of the rate of inflation .
these results , who not number never could be achieved under the former Liberal , and the free - Exchange - faced if opposed cleansing these same members d?pensiers - are now to the basic of the political current of the government , a government who tait effront?ment the efforts tremendous obviously by the governments Mulroney , who is embarrassed by the subject Opposition that he has benchers against these measures when they have been surtaxes , including the tax on the products and services .
in September 1990 , the Leader of the Party Liberal had said that :
... the Position of the party is clear .
we we opposons to the GST and not want not of his implementation in implement .
recently , the Prime Minister has fact the testimonials of this tax and ruled any attempt of the eliminate , and this even on the equipment of Reading , therefore that in has appeared a vote held here in September .
the second point who draw my attention in the speech is more disturbing because he door on the future of our country .
the government of the Canada upholds therefore the commitment that he has took others the Quebecers and all the other Canadians , to know that the principle of lacked statement by the Court Supreme of the Canada will respected .
added to some comments least nuanc?s of some door - speak of the government , follows suggests hear that in case of a referendum , the government Liberal has the intention of interpret to his way the opinion of the Court Supreme on the question of a vote favourable to the sovereignty !
I say opinion because this not is not a decision , but well a opinion that the Court Supreme has decided .
nothing in this opinion not locks who that this be .
further to me , the court is processes too far in d?passant the three questions that she was called to wishes and , this doing , she involved to a debate policy who not is not of his resort .
why ?
many I believe that the Court Supreme is processes too far in his viewed , many I am sorry that the government federal if notwithstanding prepared to participate to a referendum , not only before that he not if du , but even before that he not be known !
the priority primordiale of all government national is the unity of the country , and never he not should ask a settled who boilers to the conflict of similar - side .
in interpr?tant to his way a series of conditions waves and tortuous of the Court Supreme , the government risk in effect of if find partner in a adventure who could confirm sir to all the Canadians .
I like conclude in speaking of a subject concern shared by many , this is - to - say the fact that the Parliament , and particularly the House of the Commons , is of more in more d?phas? .
I not have never hid my admiration for the form of government of the States - United , because their regime speaks on a system of popularly who limit the excesses referred the a of the powers can if delivering only .
the more often , the chairman and the Congress are constantly to the research of compromise , because all the two are the major craftsmen of the development and of the Adopted clear of the laws .
the mistakes of the executive and the camouflages not pressing not inaper?us well long , because , to the less criticism , the Congress fact inquiry .
he sometimes often , he is true , that the power legislative Vision exag?r?ment the advantage that he diminish for delay prolong a appointment pr?sidentielle or someone other initiative of the executive , but that not robs nothing to the fact that the two powers are more or least on a foot of equality and can rarely succeed the a without the other .
the House not sitting that since few days when the government has imposed the demons for put end to the debate on the bill of bill C - 6 .
he has threatened of in do many for the bill of bill on the agreed final nisga' has .
why ?
simply because these bills of bill , we said - you , have been debated elsewhere , and that a study more staged to the Commons not add nothing of nine .
can - you express more clear his contempt for the democracy Parliamentary ?
unfortunately , the Senate has been treaty to little almost of the even manner when he has been reminded for debate the bill of bill C - 32 , on the environment , and the bill of bill C - 78 , on the Pension .
sit?t in position , the new Minister of the Environment has announced that the bill of bill C - 32 had been enough length debated and that no amendment not would agreed .
to the Committee , the majority has imposed the demons , then a report unanimous has been left to the Senate saying that the bill of bill was entach? of so of imperfections that a review should planned immediately after his Adopted .
the demons has been opportunity to the third Reading , the senators whipped benefiting that , even if the bill of bill had of many faults , he former higher to the bill existante .
in giving the bill of bill C - 32 , the majority to the Senate has in fact consciemment seconded a bill of bill all in knowing that he would should do the subject of a review more thorough , according the role pushed of the Senate .
this not is not there the a of his best accomplishments .
the bill of bill on the Pension has been 2030 of the months of June to the months of September for give to the Council of the Treasury and to the Alliance of the Fonction public the fortunate of if meet to the during of the been for trying of correct some misunderstandings , all particularly in this who touchait the are exceed .
the Council of the Treasury has refused of meet the union for discuss of the question , all?guant that these are belonged to the government .
the new chairman of the Council of the Treasury if is montr?e also inflexible .
you not has therefore held no account of the judgment unanimous of the Senate .
to the during of the debate of third Reading , you we has fact know that if the union wanted do current his claims relatively to the sharing of the surplus , he should falsity a court in justice .
there still , the Senate has forsaken his responsibilities traditional to the chapter of the review carefully order of meet a instructed came of the outside transpired that the bill of bill be adopted despite his weaknesses .
I have underlined more earlier that the new Leader of the government to the Senate had been impressed of the amount of work that we derision here by report to this who if fact to the other place .
I am of notice that this who if is product in September is should more to the forward who reciting a prorogation that to a effort volunteered in view of reduce the contributions of the Senate to the process Parliamentary and I am sure that to the during of this new session , we reprendrons our responsibilities traditional , all in met always well to the fact of the d?sirs of the House elected .
I believe well also that the rumour chronic transpired that you withdrew to the Opposition all the aggregated of Committee that she nat except a not are not substance .
not important what observer independent not able that recognize that the aggregated of Committee busy by of the colleagues of my party to the during of the first session of the presented Parliament have been orchestrated with distinction and to the honour of the Senate .
any attempt of reduce without excuse the contribution of not - supporters of the government to the system of the committees if heurtera to a Yukoners resistance , not not by waywardness vitriolic but because that the great value of our institution speaks on a touchstone of cooperation and not of hostility step .
to the then where we were dispelled of the side of the Opposition , we have resisted several time - well that with difficulty , I the lengthy - to the envy of do of the obstruction for the happy of do of the obstruction , this who has been the case during a good part of the years 80 and in 1990 when the roles were overthrow .
we have worked deliberately to the rejection of two bills of bill , regarding the airport Pearson and regarding the Inquiry of the card election , because they were clear anticonstitutionnels .
we cover always to the spirit that the showing of the representatives elected must be respected , pursuing that she if timely in the limits of the Constitution .
honourable senators , the success of the Senate if legislation not not by the exploitation of a majority for do adopt of the bills of bill to the steamship , but rather by the contribution of all the senators to the improvement of the measures legislation who we parviennent of the other place .
not give to the Opposition that a role insignificant in this process , this would Base the Senate in a image faithful of the House of the Commons and give still more of Turkey to those who dollar to do abolish our institution .
a such attitude could easily destroy the spirit present of cooperation and of harmony who , he is ironic of the see , not is not abroad to the respect of the Opposition for the Senate , a respect that the majority , I the hope , continue of share .
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . )
bill of bill admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
- honourable senators , the bill of bill S - 2 has for subject of facilitate the taken of decisions Medical by of the patients in perpetuate against any responsibility criminal the coping who trap the wishes of their patients .
more specifically , the bill of bill clarifie the laws in perpetuate the coping who if abstiennent of administering a treatment of survival to the request of the patient or in interrompent the Administration , or who administrent of the pharmacare order of inevitable of strong surely physical .
this bill of bill provides also that the Minister of the Health can establish of the lines guidelines national and promote the education and the training relatively to the forbearance of administering of the treatment of survival , of deal the pain and of administering of the care palliative or to their interruption .
the bill of bill S - 2 , whose the payments abr?g? is Act admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical , is the third bill of bill of this kind to be presented in this House these past years .
honourable senators , the 27 November 1996 , I have presented the bill of bill S - 13 , designed to amend the Code criminal ( protection of the coping ) .
this bill of bill is remained in plan during of the outbreak of the election federal in May 1997 .
to the during of the last session of the presented Parliament , the Senator Th Lavoie - Lavoie has presented the bill of bill S - 29 , who had the even objective General that the bill of bill S - 13 , the protection of the patients and of the coping .
the bill of bill S - 29 is death to the Paper during of the prorogation of the Parliament in September .
to my notice , the bill of bill S - 2 , Act admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical , int?gre the better of the bills of bill S - 13 and S - 29 .
however , I want that he be well clear for all the senators that I not consider not this bill of bill as the hall .
I the consider as the bill of bill of the Committee Special of the Senate on the Assisted and the assistance to the suicide .
he is the evolved of the work of the former Senator Joan Flynn , of the senators Lavoie - Lavoie , Corbin , Beaudoin , DeWare , Keon and me - even , since I have sat to the Committee , me also .
if I devais balladeer this bill of bill to someone a , this would to the late Senator No ladeau , who , even if he not was not member to share full of the Committee , has replaced her the Senator DeWare several months , during that she solve his husband patient , and who has continued of dialogue with we until to this that he be him - even to the taken with a illness seeks .
the honourable senators indicate that the bill of bill S - 2 starts by a preamble .
the 23 February 1994 , the Committee Senate Special on the Assisted and the assistance to the suicide has been formed for examine the aspects legal , social and Ethics of the Assisted and of the assistance to the suicide .
they have relates to the care palliative and to the refusal of receive a treatment Use to maintain the duties ingenuity or to the v. of this type of treatment .
they have relates to the control of the pain .
the 6 June 1995 , the Committee has submitted to the Senate his report entitled : to De the life and of the death to .
according me , the preamble of this bill of bill is essential for give to the Senate the deserves who him works of full right .
some editors of laws not unhappy not the pr?ambules .
however , in the case present , he not is not only positive , but he makes justice to the Committee , who has worked very durum .
I like now speak of points speak of the bill of bill S - 2 .
the section 2 of the bill of bill provides that no provider of care of health not can be recognized found of a offence in under of the Code criminal for have administered to a human of the pharmacare with the intention of inevitable or of do away his suffering physical , to of the sharply Brunswicker abr?ger his life .
in his report entitled : to De the life and of the death to , the Committee Senate Special recognizes that the practice who introducing to deal the patient of manner to inevitable his suffering , even if she can abr?ger the life of the patient , is currently legal .
the Code criminal not banned not the care palliative , even if that can abr?ger the life of the patient , in many that the care are Service of way consistent to the practices Medical generally recognized .
however , a sure number of witnesses have said to the Committee that the doctors h?sitaient often to administering enough of pharmacare antidouleur if that walked of abr?ger the life of the patients , of fear of be held criminellement responsible of the Late of their patients .
of very many witnesses him having described the confusion who Jr. as home the professionals of the health that to the within of the population in General further to the rendered of the practice , the Committee Senate Special has recommended to the unanimously that the provisions appropriate of the Code criminal ensure clarified .
many are the doctors if sp?cialisant in the care palliative who argue that the treatment of the pain not abr?ge never the life of the patient .
according some evidence collected , when the concentration of the pharmacare is well resolved , the patients if adaptent simply to the occasional increased of the pharmacare administered .
however , we not in have no evidence and , to my notice , there not is not the true question .
all many that we are , we should ensure to this that the patients to the Canada suffering the least possible .
the Committee Senate not is not the only to clamour that you clarifie the provisions of the Code criminal who identification on the possible of administering a treatment who , all in att?nuant the pain , risk of abr?ger the life of the patient .
the Commission of reform of the right had articulate the even recommendation in a report that she has dissemination in 1983 .
of more , the Association medical Canadian written the confusion of the bill in this field since 1992 .
the Committee Senate Special flies the expression more general of to treatment Use to inevitable the suffering to , but the section 2 of the bill of bill is articulate of way to exclude the situations where of the pharmacare are administered for inevitable of the suffering ?motionnelles or psychological .
to my notice , he must user of prudence and nothing in this bill of bill not should uncontroversial the controversy , and yet we know all that the treatment of the suffering ?motionnelle or psychological prepared to the controversy .
the section 2 not protects not the coping in the case where he could there have a other kind of responsibility criminal , as the neglect criminal .
honourable senators , understand - me well : the section 2 not if applies absolutely not to the case where he there has intention of resulting the death .
he not if applies that in the case where the you means inevitable the suffering physical of the patient .
he is very important of the highlight .
none not should relentless to his responsibility criminal if his intention is of killing someone a .
the subsection 3 ( 1 ) of the bill of bill S - 2 provides that the soignant not is not found of a offence portion by the Code criminal of the only fact that to the request of a human able , he if abstient of him administering a treatment of survival or in abrupt the Administration .
the subsection 3 ( 2 ) clarifie the circumstances in expelling a request is considered valid to the purposes of the subsection 3 ( 1 ) .
of the instructions written pre , substandard to the laws of a province , discuss always above .
the most of the provinces have already adopted of the provisions legislation on the instructions pre .
the Alberta is the last province to have adopted a bill to this about ; in effect , the Personal appended Act has been proclaimed and is entry in force the 1 December 1997 .
the Manitoba , Newfoundland - Newfoundland , the Nova - Nova , the Ontario and the Quebec have also l?galis? the drafting of this that the you Order , in the niceties , the testaments biological .
the British - British and to the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward have adopted of the laws in this Equity , but those - side not are not still in force .
to defaults of instructions written data pr?alablement pursuant to the laws of a province , of the guidelines written not official or a request made unfettered or by warning , in presence of to the least a witness , constitute a request valid .
the subsection 3 ( 3 ) provides that a other request can be made by a agent , a representative legal or a earnings , but only if the patient not has not the ability of the do or if , during that he in was able , he not has not fact of request valid .
in his report entitled : to De the life and of the death to , the Committee Senate Special has defined the forbearance of treatment of survival as met the fact of not not initiate a treatment investigator of maintain the patient in life , by example not not trying the dying cardiorespiratoire ( RCR ) , not not give a blood therapy , not not administering of antibiotics or not not ensure the food and the hydratation artificielles .
he has defined the interruption as the fact of stop a treatment investigator of maintain the patient in life , by example d?brancher the respirateur .
the Committee Senate Special has underlined that the courts Canadian have recognized to the patients the right in way way of refuse a treatment medical or of require that a treatment , a time began , be interrompu .
in of the Affairs as Malettec. Schulman , in 1990 , Nancy B . Q H?tel - God of Quebec , in 1992 and in the case Rodriguez , in 1993 , the courts have wording recognized this right , even if the consequential of this forbearance or of this interruption of treatment of survival is the death .
I think that he is important of return on some of these causes with you .
in the case Mallettec. Schulman , in 1990 , the Court of appeal of the Ontario has said that the instructions on the transfusions blood data during that a wait in was able altering be followed , even if she not had not the ability of take a decision .
the court has felt that the doctor party meet the instructions written of a witness of J?hovah who refuses any blood therapy , even in a situation of emergency where the wait not could give his consent .
to the words of the decision that she has decided in January 1992 in the case Nancy B . , the Court Superior of the Quebec has felt that the wait adulthood able , injured of a illness incurable and alit?e until to the end of his days , had the right of ask that his doctor d?branche the respirateur who the maintenait in life .
in skill his decision , the Justice Dufour has quoted the sections of the Code Civil of the Quebec according capably the human human is inviolable and none not can be forced of suffer a treatment without his consent .
this case address also of the responsibility criminal of the doctor who party , to the request of Nancy B . , d?brancher the respirateur .
after if be order to the sections 216 , 217 , 45 and 219 of the Code criminal , therefore that to the provisions on the the homicide , the Justice has concluded that a doctor not knowing not evidence of a conduct unreasonable , gratuite or rarity in d?branchant the respirateur of a wait to the request of similar - side and in leaving the illness of the wait follow his during natural .
in 1993 , Mr. the Justice Sopinka , of the Court Supreme of the Canada , who has prepared the decision majority in the case Rodriguez , has also recognized the right of the patients of not not encouraging to a treatment or of ask that the treatment be interrompu , even if the death party in revisited .
he is important of if remind that , in this case , the majority not was not in favour of the Assisted and of the assistance to the suicide .
she was however in favour of the right to the forbearance or to the interruption of the treatment , right who is the subject of the bill of bill to the study .
however , honourable senators , of the witnesses have said before the Committee Special that , in some case , you not had not respected the deliberations of the patients because that the Code criminal not was not clear and that the coping consensus of be held responsible .
to because of these evidence on the confusion who there among the coping and the population in General , the Committee Senate Special has recommended to new to the unanimously that the way way in force be codifi?e of way to clarify the circumstances in expelling he is legally acceptable of not not provide or of interrupt a treatment of survival .
still there , the Committee Senate not was not the Prime to recommend that the right be clarifi? in this field .
in 1983 , the Commission of reform of the right of the Canada had recommended she also that the Code criminal be clarifi? to this regard .
since 1992 , the Association medical Canadian advocating that the Code criminal be clarifi? in this who respect the right legal of put end to a treatment order of put the coping to the homeless of the prosecutions .
honourable senators , the section 6 of the bill of bill S - 2 is the more canto example of the fusionnement of my bill of bill drafted , the S - 13 , and of the bill of bill of the Senator Lavoie - Lavoie , the S - 29 .
the bill of bill S - 29 required the institution of lines guidelines for the treatment of the pain and for the forbearance and the interruption of treatment of survival .
the section 6 of the present bill of bill provides that the Minister of the Health Municipal , in cooperation with the authorities provincial and the associations of the professionals of the health , of the lines guidelines national relatively to the forbearance and to the interruption of treatment of survival , to the treatment of the pain and to the care palliative .
the bill of bill allows to the Minister of the Health of promote and of encourage the education of the great public and the training of the professionals of the health regarding the treatment of the pain and the care palliative .
the bill of bill provides also that the you monitors the number of time that he there will had forbearance or interruption of the treatment of survival and that the you fear of the investigations and that the you convey of the research to this effect .
in his report entitled : to De the life and of the death to , the Committee Special of the Senate has recognized the importance of lines guidelines national in these areas .
of many witnesses who are came before the Committee have recommended that you give more of information and of training to the providers of care of health on the care palliative and the control of the pain .
almost all the witnesses who have appeared before the Committee Special of the Senate if canvassing to say that of the research more career were necessary in these areas .
honourable senators , the bill of bill S - 2 is the result direct of the work of the Committee Special of the Senate on the Assisted and the suicide attended .
to my notice , he together the best elements of the two bills of bill precedents who have been introduced to the Senate .
he intended to clarify the right p?nal in codifiant the way way existante and in the skill accessible and understandable for all the Canadians , order of protect the patients and their providers of care of health .
I forward with forward the debate on this bill of bill .
this who is more important still , I forward with forward the study in Committee , where you chair and coincide this legislation of way more thorough .
I am particularly pleased of the participation of the Senator Lavoie - Lavoie , who , as me , means that the recommendations of the Committee Special of the Senate becoming bill .
this bill of bill not is can - be not still exactly this that he must .
unfortunately , in as that beings human , we not are not equal .
I hope that the Committee Senate of the Affairs legal and Constitutional chair this bill of bill carefully order of if ensure that he meets to the needs of the Canadians and that he there mill of the amendments for the improve to the need .
I want that this bill of bill be also good that he can the be , and I know that this is also there the desire of the Senator Lavoie - Lavoie and of the other members of the Committee Special of the Senate .
I hope that we able refer this bill of bill quickly to the Committee order that his study , who , of by his nature , takes many of time , can begin without delay , before that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , recognized for his long p.m. and his lag responsible , not be to the taken with the job reminder of the measures legislation of initiative brief .
honourable senators , I you invite to examine the bill of bill S - 2 and I you urge to the support .
the hon. Douglas Roche :
her the Senator agree - she of answer to a question ?
the Senator Carstairs :
certainly .
the Senator Roche :
thank .
I want of first express my recognition to the Senator Carstairs for the kindly whose she has fact evidence in showing his bill of bill .
I hope that he there will a debate thorough on this important question and that you not cherchera not to if mothballing of this bill of bill to the forward , order that you gave ample the opportunity , as to the step of the second Reading to the Senate that to the step of the study in Committee , of in do the review that he deserves .
in preface of preparedness to my contribution to the debate of this night , I like ask two questions to the Senator Carstairs , if she the means well .
of first , the Senator Carstairs has said without definitive that the bill of bill creating to relieve the pain and not to ?courter the life , but as the fact of relieve the pain can have for effect of ?courter the life , the Senator Carstairs lead - she that that can open the door to the suicide attended ?
she has said very clear that of the treatment tremendous for extend the life not are not necessary of a point of view d?ontologique , but , in the treatment of the patients in Phase seeks , not there has he not a danger that the various pressure if acted carry ending to a form of expressions or of pressure in favour of the use of pharmacare att?nuant the pain to of the purposes secret , or to of the purposes not d?clar?es openly , who consistent in fact to ?courter the life ?
the Senator Carstairs :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator of his question , because that such is guarantee the part essential of any the question .
this is why we must have of the lines guidelines and of the means of control .
I renverrais the Senator to the cat?chisme of the church Catholic , including to the section 2279 , because that the difference there is enough clear stated .
the cat?chisme said follows :
even if the death is judged imminente , you not can legitimately interrupt the care ordinary to terminally to a patient .
the use of analg?siques for relieve the suffering of the mourant , even to the risk of abr?ger his days , can be considered morally consistent to the dignity human , if the death not is not ongoing as a end or a average .
for me , this kind of confusion is if necessary that if the bill of bill not the contains not , we must we ensure that she there found .
I think that this is already the case , but if , modifions - the for that this be absolutely clear .
the Senator Roche :
I thank the hon. Senator .
the response is certainly useful to the essential of the debate .
my second question door on the Code criminal .
I not see not very well why the bill of bill objective to codifier the way way existante or to Authorize some actions who could indeed be viewed as of the actions criminals without have to amend the Code criminal him - even .
why means - you avoid of amend the Code criminal in giving the bill of bill ?
the Senator Carstairs :
honourable senators , still a time , I thank the hon. Senator of his question .
he is interesting of highlight that , in the Prime bill of bill that I have presented , he there had a amendment of the Code criminal .
however , to the during of the debate and of the discussions to the Senate , and also by the following , in the bill of bill of the Senator Lavoie - Lavoie , he is became obvious that we wanted more that a amendment of the Code criminal .
we tentions also of establish of the lines guidelines national and of put in place of the measures of control and of do do of the experiences and of the business of research on the control of the pain .
( on the motion of the Senator DeWare , to the behalf of the Senator Lavoie - Lavoie , the debate is adjourned . )
the strategy of the housing for the aboriginal
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Thelma J . Chalifoux , pursuant to the notice given the 14 October 99 :
- honourable senators , he is difficult for the most of the Canadians of understand why he sphere of the differences between the conditions of life and the challenges of the aboriginal and those of the other citizens of the Canada .
he is also difficult for them of understand why he must adopt of the solutions different in reason of the situation , of the rights , of the values and of the potential of the aboriginal .
that is can - be difficult to understand , but he is essential of the understand for power advance in harmony .
the strategy of the housing intended to determine if the recent decisions of the government federal enable of improve the conditions of housing of the families aboriginal and if of important improvements can be concerning to the strategy federal current .
this document of work is Use to facilitate a real dialogue on the main makes of a strategy who we will enter in the next century and on the better way of the put in implement .
we have chosen of we stop on the forces of all the Peoples to the Canada and the sources of these forces for in arrive to a strategy insightful .
a source of force sometimes overlooked and implementation of side is the showing and the right of the Peoples aboriginal - the tis , the Inuit and the members of the First Nations - of seek and of put in implement their own solutions .
this is this force who has resulted the launch with success of hundreds of initiatives filter of the basic .
sometimes , they have been g?n?es by of the tracasseries administrative or not have could ending for a reason whatever .
of other initiatives filter of the aboriginal them - same have resulted the provision of the networks regional and then national , therefore that of the institutions important on capably we comptons now .
if we can better combiner the points strong of the aboriginal and of the Canadians in General and covering these forces for improve the housing , we regards fact many more that anyone could if there expect .
I will now me dealt on the scope and the subject of the strategy in Equity of housing for the families aboriginal .
some can thinking that we not have not need of a other study on the conditions of housing or a study on the ways of amend the programs national in the hope that the families aboriginal carry in learn some benefits .
we are of agreed .
too of these studies have already been Conducted and have led to a low improvement of the conditions of life .
of more , we have all could advantage of the advice and of the research without precedent of the Commission Royal on the Peoples aboriginal , in 1996 .
we seeing now the first accomplishments of the initiative to Strength our forces to , the plan of action that the government federal has launched in January 1997 .
we had hoped that of other partners in the Confederation annonceraient them also their plans and their priorities .
to this chapter , we are disappointed .
some progress are weaknesses , but several senators and leaders aboriginal if concern of more in more of the lack of measures concrete taken for improve the conditions of housing of the families aboriginal .
we want flourishing a dialogue national on the need of establish a strategy clear and more dynamic in Equity of housing for the families aboriginal .
we want we stop on the direction future of a strategy for the families alive to the outside of the reserves and of the Lands implemented of side for the Peoples aboriginal in the framework of agreements on the claims land concern .
the families aboriginal alive on these Lands have , to the words of treaties and of the bill , of the conditions of housing who different many of those of the families alive elsewhere .
what that he in be , any strategy in Equity of housing must hold account of the mouvements of population on these Lands .
many of tis , of Inuit and of members of the First Nations hand leave the communities ancestrales for seek of the work , of the opportunities prometteuses and of the housing decent in the major and small cities of the Canada .
this is a trend growing who will if continue .
you knows well also that their rate of natalit? is higher to the average national , all as the number of their young is more high , since the population aboriginal is 10 years more young that the population in General .
he there has 50 years , you d?nombrait least of 200 100,000 aboriginal .
today today , he there in has more of 1 million who live to the Canada .
this figure not includes not however the population of the tis of the country .
many of other aboriginal live to the States - United and can or not return to the country after their years of work .
you provides that the population aboriginal will increase drama 100,000 persons to the during of the next generation .
his conditions Social and economic not too that of modest improvements .
a strategy in Equity of housing reasonable must power answer to the needs future planned of the population aboriginal and to the new priorities .
I will now explain why the conditions and the problems of housing of the aboriginal are different .
a reason important for which more of the half of the families aboriginal live today today in of the housing lower to the standards is a great poverty persistante .
many are often on the point of if passed in the street or hand live in of the communities rural , urban and vital already surpeupl?es .
the jobs that the aboriginal find are difficulty paid and they must use to the maximum their cheque of paye for answer to the needs basic in food and in Clothing of families more many that the average .
you believe that the income of employment of the aboriginal 1 to the two third of extend of the average national .
more of 40 per of between them not had not of income of employment in 1995 .
they have little or not of credit .
that arriverait - he if the aboriginal altering obtain the 50 with the Canadians means in Equity of employment and of salary ?
course , that their UNSCOM a level of life higher and all the Canada in profiterait .
in 1991 , the former Minister of the Affairs Indian and of the North Canadian , Thomas Siddon , stated that , if he there had 50 of here the year 2000 , the product national gross of the Canada step of increase the income tax of the government federal of 4,3 billion of $ and of reduce the debt national of 20 billion of $ .
the commission Royal there is processes of his own analysis on this point .
she has esteemed that he in cost to the Canada 7,5 billion of $ double as that the circumstances economic and Social of the Peoples aboriginal demeureraient pushed to the average national .
he important of note that this amount 1 to a loss of income net of 2,9 billion of $ for the Peoples aboriginal , combin?e to a cost tax of 4,6 billion of $ , there including 2,1 billion of $ under form of lack to gain for the government .
unfortunately , a strategy designed to answer to the needs in Equity of housing need tragic with a problem of poverty aigu? home the aboriginal , because that nothing not evidence that the disparit?s economic and Social between the population in General and the aboriginal hand soon away .
the recent increase of the rate of literacy and of the levels of education in General help some families , but the housing done fewer inabordables for a well too great number of aboriginal .
the 1954 economic have been reduced many too slowly to the during of the 20 past years for let believe that the you if is served of the problem of the poverty home the aboriginal .
some are more evident that of other .
taken together , these reasons have caused many of difficulties .
if we want we stop of a strategy in Equity of housing who speaks on of the bases solid , he would wise of examine some of these reasons .
the discrimination under all his forms remains the a of the causes who Senate the sad situation of the housing home the aboriginal .
she dealt to this then the beside of Corporation core of RRRAP and of housing .
almost of 30 years more later , the program of housing rural to the intention of the aboriginal has seen the day .
the Program of housing of the aboriginal in environment urbain has followed in 1978 .
the new commitments in Equity of housing in the framework of these programs have took end in even time that the government federal has unceasingly of take of the commitments in Equity of housing social the 1 January 1994 . Pendant any his length , the program of housing of the aboriginal not has never fact the subject of a assessment .
the disparit?s boat also to the low priority granted to the questions of housing of the aboriginal .
this situation could including if explain by the lack of representation aboriginal to the Parliament of the Canada and of participation of the aboriginal to the service public federal .
the arcanes of the power rely little of aboriginal for draw the attention on the problems matching or on their solutions .
that allowed many more easily of forget the conditions in expelling they tarpaper .
fair to the time where the Canadians six to be more aware of the needs of the aboriginal , the priorities national have changed .
this situation unwitting fact that the conditions of life weaponry of the Canadians ?clipsent the reality of the aboriginal .
honourable senators , the idea according which the problems aboriginal and the solutions to there contribute not represent that a version reduced of the problems existing and of the solutions to contribute to the wide of the Canada is a other reason who explain the responding results and accomplishments to the within of the companies aboriginal .
nothing not door to believe that a similar strategy gave given of good results to the over of the years .
in reality , this is a model not having more of credibility , and of important studies of the conditions Social and economic , there including the study of December 1998 on the clochardise , mea the Adopted of strategies separate for hold account of the realities experienced doing opposite the aboriginal .
well that of the services to the aboriginal ensure came if add to the programs of management of the housing , the political and programs of basic are those who are designed for solve the problems not aboriginal , and the governments federal and provincial in are the managers .
the problems of jurisdiction relating to the housing of the aboriginal exclusions elsewhere that on the Lands r?serv?es to these Communities we monitorings insurmountable .
the most of the authorities provincial , land and aboriginal if in constrained essentially to the government federal .
yet , the transfers of funds , the points of tax , the powers and the Administration overwhelmingly more of responsibilities to the provinces .
this transfer of skills raises the controversy and freine the progress of this file .
this not are there that few - concerns of the reasons who Senate the differences observed to the payments of the housing of the aboriginal and of the difficulties overnment to this payments by these last .
we the memories in the hope that they we treaty to find of the solutions future to the problem of the housing .
he not there had not of bad intentions to the departure .
the reasons historic and juridico - political to the poverty , to the impuissance and to the injuries subis by the companies aboriginal reviewers a other problem - whose doing state the commission Royal of inquiry and the evidence of many leaders aboriginal .
he will without say that these reasons pr?pond?rantes dirty of all their negative on the status socio?conomique Lower of the aboriginal today today .
honourable senators , I like now speak briefly of the consequences of the strategies federal fellow .
the strategies federal of the 25 past years have been reduced to a succumb of grants for of the correspondence in state , of the upkeep of emergency , a newest program of construction domiciliaire , a program precise of construction of housing in environment urbain , a program of construction in environment rural having for objective a rate of occupation of 50 per of the housing by of the aboriginal , of the appropriation of tax , of the Allowance for the housing , and of the bills of self - assistance , including of statehood to the ownership , who have fact long gun .
the authorities provincial and municipal have participated to the Estimates incurred , but in part only .
to payments of example , the program of housing of the aboriginal in environment urbain not has been supported that by the loyers paid by the aboriginal and of the grants federal .
of the committees tripartites have been constitu?s , faced participaient in some case of the providers of services .
of the forecasts of Estimates recent of the Residential regarding the aboriginal outside reserves teamwork state of a expenditure Annual of the Order of 172,5 million of $ to the payments of the housing .
the programs more important of construction in sector urbain and rural have licences to of the families aboriginal of live in of the housing to price reasonable .
Quelque10 8,700 housing urban are USA to of the families aboriginal ; he if is of housing social closed and administration by a 100 of companies to purpose not profit .
someone 9 per other housing closed in environment rural are busy by of the families aboriginal .
the most have been " through to of the programs of assistance to the statehood to the ownership .
these figures vary according the source and are doctors by of many leaders aboriginal .
this are there few - each of the results positive of the strategies federal pensioners .
to that he must add the results positive of programs of renovate , of upkeep of emergency , of research and of d?monstration , without forget the programs to the intention of the persons seniors and of the persons disabilities .
for those and those who not conna?traient not the 1954 observed in the conditions of housing , a series of questions found in Printed .
I d?poserai the Room attached .
honourable senators , say that the 1954 are great not enough not to understand the life difficult that fear the tis , the Inuit and the Peoples of the First Nations .
a family aboriginal on three has a need essential of housing , compared to a family not aboriginal on ten .
the need essential of housing is a legislation fundamental for determine that a family lives in of the conditions pushed to the normal and not has not the means of if offer a surface habitable expeditiously .
he there has ten , approximately 63 100,000 families aboriginal had a need essential of housing .
the population has increased and the percentage of the families having a need essential of housing rest three time more high that the average national .
the number of Diaspora not constantly of increase .
the report of December 1998 of the Group of work of the mayor on the without - homeless of Toronto indicates a other impact of the strategies who have failed in this field .
in 1996 , someone 4 100,000 aboriginal were without - homeless in the only region of Toronto .
someone 8 100,000 other risquaient of if passed in this situation , there including of many children .
he is poses that the situation who prevails to Toronto if apparent to similar who has during in of other cities , including the six other cities Canadian who are dens?ment peupl?es of aboriginal .
a aboriginal on five lives in seven areas metropolitan .
this are there of the figures terrible , but he we must alters more the effects of the strategies federal fellow if we want learn of the lessons of the mistakes and of the opportunities watch and visa on the points strong .
a of these points strong , this is the evolution of the companies aboriginal of housing .
these companies if are luck strong useful and fiables .
his Hon. the Speaker :
Senator Chalifoux , I am sorry of you interrupt , but your 15 minutes are period .
asking - you the Authorized of continue ?
the Senator Chalifoux :
yes .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Chalifoux :
I you thank , honourable senators .
of the hundreds and of the hundreds of volunteers have spent of their time to these companies then that the dozen of employees dedicated if are busy of manage the business of construction , of maintain the canoeing of housing and of offer of the services to the locataires and to the claimants .
the file urbain to him only worth now more of 500 million of $ .
any a range of services are offered by the staff in position and of other services are availability by the through of a system machinery established between various agencies of services aboriginal , this who includes of the programs as the Program of assistance pr?scolaire to the aboriginal , the activities cultural , the training and the mutual therefore that the services and activities of the centres of reaction the case afforded .
of the positions are created in the field of the construction and of the maintenance , of the contracts are accorded to of the businesses , of the taxes fonci?res and of the taxes are fellows , and particularly , of the families have the fortunate of if take in labour and of if start on the market private .
I can you speak of a family , by example .
for the first time , I can buy of the oranges for my children . to
they waiting of in have the fortunate them also .
this is a wonderful average of strengthen their identity , a average essential of keep the young aboriginal to the homeless of the bad situations in expelling if find many of young , and that the Access to the school .
a modest housing in of best unequal has given the tranquility of spirit and a sense of security to the women , to the children and to the Seniors aboriginal .
these results not doing not the headlines , but they have realized the life better to many of people and they have created a ability and a desire of do well more .
the relations remain still m?diocres between the aboriginal and some governments local , but they can become best with the time .
to the least , the problems of housing and the companies of habitation have licences of initiate a dialogue , if nothing of other not can the between .
the companies of habitation aboriginal persons also someone something of rare .
this is the only institution who presented a profile to day of the families aboriginal and who provides the average of the reach easily .
their understaffed of Awaiting , jointes to those of the locataires existing , their created of in know a little to comments of thousands of families aboriginal and to comments of the evolution of their conditions of existence .
that step a tool important for disseminating the services to the more terror in the society aboriginal .
what are the choice for a future strategy designed to answer to the needs of the aboriginal in Equity of housing and to the new priorities ?
the conditions gloomy of housing that familiar the Peoples aboriginal backed to require that you particulars of the measures .
despite that , of other priorities if doing day who outlays the attention .
according of the figures recent , 46p. per of the children aboriginal of least of five years who live in the major areas metropolitan live in of the families 9,300 .
this rate represents seven time the rate for the population in General .
almost of a third of all the children aboriginal live in of the families 9,300 .
the most of the families 9,300 have to their head a wife .
he met put in place a strategy extremely well coordinated for satisfy to the needs of these families in Equity of housing and of health , for satisfy to their needs Cultural and economic and for satisfy to the needs of the young children .
the trend demographics fact equally the young age of the population aboriginal , and this trend if shall .
the number of children of least of five years by wife aboriginal in age of procr?er is 70 time more high that the rate for the total of the population Canadian .
of the salaries lower and a rate of unemployment high are makes among the young , still more among the young aboriginal .
since that he has been developed end to the construction of new housing subsidized in 1994 , the list of the aboriginal in Awaiting of a housing if is allong?e .
he is obvious that the canoeing of housing social present not can welcome the families aboriginal or not the accept not .
these past years , the provinces have reduced their commitments or there have developed end and he not there not of figure reliable on the number of families aboriginal log?es in of the housing social .
he important of do pointed that the housing social are register on the basic of the audit of the solvabilit? and of the below of the income , this who banned the access of the aboriginal to of the housing subsidized 118.8 to the not - aboriginal .
the commission Royal has esteemed that he will necessary of build 17 100,000 new housing and of proceed to of important business of model on 37 100,000 other for power settling the backlog between 1996 and 2016 .
in addition , 21 slightly new Diaspora preventable to the growth demographics and to the training of new families discuss also need of assistance .
without assistance financial , the level of life of these people should pretending still , and the number of families in the need should increase .
to the following of the decisions taken recently by the government federal , of the funds for the Administration of the housing social have been transferred to the provinces who have agreed this arrangement .
the Ontario , the Quebec , the British - British and the Alberta have now deliberation for this formula .
the agreements of transfer automobiles the programs of housing for the aboriginal in the areas rural and urban .
the process of transfer has fall enormous of conflict and of differences between the Residential and the providers of housing aboriginal .
including , the companies urban of housing aboriginal have pr?conis? of the transfers direct to the companies of housing aboriginal by the through of agreements negotiated and of a body national of coordination .
this Position is well known and is prior to the policy of transfer of the programs to the provinces .
this kind of arrangement has of the precedents including in the centres of training and of reaction .
the argumentations against the transfers federal to the provinces are historic , constitutional and profoundly enracin?s in the objectives of autod?termination of the Peoples aboriginal .
they insistent also on the lack of consultation to the regard of these transfers .
of enemies consultation constitute a principle sir in the evolution of the relations with the Peoples aboriginal and a principle seconded by the Court Supreme of the Canada in of the judgments as the judgment Sparrow .
he there has also of the reasons of policy and of operating daily to the challenge of the transfers provincial .
in fact , nothing not proves that the provinces can better administering of the programs that the companies urban of housing aboriginal .
no assessment independent not the has never revealed not more .
by against , you knows that of the measures key as the institution of the apartment in service of the income of the locataires can be changed unilaterally to the grateful of the provinces .
the Residential has tried of ensure to the companies of housing for aboriginal that their interests in their conserving of housing are protected in the agreements of transfer and that they not if in conservation not more difficulty .
these assurance have been very little convaincantes .
they believe have the right , well m?rit? , of take of the decisions they - same .
if they decision of conclude of the agreements with the provinces or with the authorities local by the following , this will their choice , a choice based on their political and on their programs .
the question is of know if he must cancel the transfer of the programs aboriginal and negotiate of the agreements of transfer with the companies of housing for aboriginal who the wish or let in place the strategy federal of transfer of the responsibilities to the provinces .
of very solid arguments have been introduced in favour of the Alternative , by a model aboriginal , of the model of the needs essential who legislation the uniqueness affordable , the Humane to the needs and the standards of Conformity in the society Canadian .
for of the reasons evident , this model quoting account also of the security of the family and of the practices cultural .
he refl?terait better the reality aboriginal when he if is of assessment the needs and of develop of the strategies for there answer .
he step of draw to the future of the strategies on the housing for achieve of the objectives that continue already of the companies of housing who not are to little almost not recognized by the governments .
in wide these objectives , you mean of the gripped to the aboriginal , you incorporated account of the needs of the great - parents and of the Seniors , of the practices spirituelles , of the access to the activities cultural , of the programs of the small boyhood and of the services aboriginal regarding the assistance financial and the assistance in Equity of employment .
the strategy of housing should be more to even of protect the families of the crime and of the violence whose they can be victims to because of their heritage aboriginal .
the changes concerning to the Act national on the habitation and to the Act on the Corporation Canadian of RRRAP and of housing , who have received the Assent Royal the 17 June 99 , have given to the Residential of the tools more solid for give of the assistance and deal with of the types more many of organizations , if you in believes the testimony of the officials of the Residential , who have been heard by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology the 9 June 99 . This power increased facilitera can - be the transfer of powers real and of a sure control to a new Administration aboriginal of the housing .
this strategy 1 to the key recommendation that has worded the Committee Standing of the Affairs aboriginal in 1992 after of long deliberations and consultation .
the Committee , formed of representatives of all the parties , has between other recommended that the funding of the housing aboriginal be administered by the through of a only body whose the mandate sell the granting of loans , the insurance , the development of political , the taken of decisions , the management of programs , the research , the training , the development economic and the funding .
to the during of a recent convention on the housing organized by the Assembly of the First Nations , the leaders have pr?conis? a structure similar for satisfy to the needs of the members of the First Nations .
the new Administration aboriginal of the housing would independent and would the ability of do of the laws for the aboriginal .
she would also the power of negotiate of the agreements with of the departments federal therefore that of disseminating or of offer to of the thousands of families of the services of training and of mutual , of the services relating to the development of the young children , of the services of health and of education and of the assistance to the development of the businesses .
a such strategy step also to the companies of the housing of do more with the resources financial to their clause .
the difference between the rate cr?diteur federal and the rate d?biteur federal could serve to fund more of houses and to support the research on the best initiatives and the management .
that step also of develop of new services and products linked to the borrowing mortgage for help the families aboriginal .
these services could englober the Purchase and the maintenance of local for the students and the care of health , because he would possible of better use the someone 200 million of $ that expenditure the government federal for these local .
honourable senators , the transfer of these attributions federal can if do without that he be necessary of adopt of new provisions legislation .
he should probably that the Prime Minister if pr?vale of the powers that him authority the Act on the restructurations and the transfers of attributions in the Administration public , and that the all be formalizes by of the agreements of transfers done .
to long term , you could propose and adopt of new provisions legislation designed to recognize the existence of authorities local aboriginal in Equity of housing , authorities whose the powers , the duties and the makes on the plan legal would unique .
these authorities local not will more of the companies without purpose profit and they could create of the businesses and of the jobs in their communities .
they will the expression of the autod?termination of the aboriginal .
this is to the legislators that he belongs now of put in implement a strategy aboriginal overall audacieuse or of simply draft the strategy federal existante .
the government if circumstances on the serious circumstances that live the families evidence of if passed in the street , or who there are already , there including the families aboriginal .
we believe that , in the major cities , the system who provides of the services to the without - homeless aboriginal is the key of any strategy designed to help these without - homeless and that any synthetic of money nine should if do to the average of this system .
the research evidence of way again that he must develop without delay a strategy and a plan of action for put in implement of the solutions to this problem pressing .
met given that Health Canada has said that a home adequate was considerations for the health , the problem of the without - homeless demands that of the measures ensure taken soon now .
we must study seriously the recommendations followed by following of studies , of investigations and of evidence order of present of the advice precise .
the recommendations and the plan of action treaty the Minister responsible of the without - homeless .
this study not must not be rel?gu?e to the oubliettes .
in as that Canadians and parliamentarians , we must not only answer to this need pressing , but also develop a plan of action who occasionally to all the families aboriginal the place who their works in the society Canadian .
the companies of housing for the aboriginal persons a expertise .
they have only need of a opportunity and of a transfer of skills for do their work .
honourable senators , have - I the leave of table the Room attached whose I have spoke ?
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Chalifoux :
thank .
( on the motion of the Senator Rompkey , the debate is adjourned . )
( the Senate if adjourned to the Wednesday 3 November 99 , to 13 p.m. 30 . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 5
the Wednesday 3 November 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
the crisis agricultural current
the leave of adjourn pursuant to the section 60 of the Rules order of examine a question high of interest public
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
transport and Communications
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
the Committee of selection
Presented of the fourth report
the Code criminal
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the Union Parliamentary
the four - ninety - ten - eighteenth conference held to Oulan Batour , in Mongolie - Tabled of the report of the group Canadian
the Act on the languages official
the services in French offered to the francophones outside Quebec - Notice of inquiry
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Court Supreme
the appointment of the hon. Beverley McLachlin to the position of Justice in Leader
the Defence national
the restructuring of the units of contingency of the Canada Atlantic - Conformity 1 Regiment of Turkey of campaign of the Artillerie Royal Canadian
the Senate
the efforts designed to increase the representation of the minorities visible
the development of the resources human
the efforts designed to increase the representation of the minorities visible
the Nations overseeing
the disarmament nuclear - Position policy of the government opposite to the resolution of the New Agenda Coalition
the Affairs foreign
the new ambassador deposited of the Organization World of the trade - Position possible of a contract of consultation with the employer of the former ambassador - Request of Tabled of documents
the Finance
the d?valuation of the dollar - Conformity influence on the Purchase of companies Canadian by of the interests foreign
Questions delayed to of the questions Oral
the environment
the Nova - Nova - Position responsibility of the timetables of the sites of wastes toxic
the Defence national
the Nova - Nova - Position responsibility of the prospect of the damage occur by the floods in the coincidental of Colchester
the business of the Senate
Order OF orders
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the directed in response - Continued of the debate
the Adresse in response - Motion seconded to put end to the debate the eighteenth day of sitting - Adjourned of the debate
the Code criminal
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading
referred to the Committee - Adopted of the motion of amendment
Affairs legal and Constitutional
motion Requesting the Authorized of use the documents and evidence collected during of the review of the bill of bill precedent for the study of the bill of bill present - Adjourned of the debate
the consequences of the Union Monetary European
Authorized to the Committee of the Affairs foreign of Services of the staff
Affairs foreign
the amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North - Adopted of the report budget of the Committee on the study
the strategies designed to answer to the needs of the aboriginal in Equity of housing
inquiry
the crisis in the sector agricultural
study of a question of emergency public in under of the section 60 of the Rules
the SENATE
the Wednesday 3 November 99
the sitting is met to 13 p.m. 30 , the Speaker met to the Chair .
prayers .
the crisis agricultural current
the leave of adjourn pursuant to the section 60 of the Rules order of examine a question high of interest public
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , I rise the speak today today for ask the held of a debate of emergency on the crisis agricultural .
I believe understand that I must convince His Hon. therefore that my colleagues of the emergency of the situation .
I like say of entry of stake that the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry has coast during more of a year and half of the evidence of representatives of movements of farmers , primarily those of the west of the Canada .
these representatives we have entretenus of the problems that they familiar currently .
I believe that our Committee has join a kicking careful to their representations , who were serious .
the first ministers of the Manitoba and of the Saskatchewan if are taller someone little disappointed of the response that they have received to the during of the discussions that they have liberty recently with the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Finance .
he there has in the west of the Canada a deep sense of reluctance and of despair .
I not fixed not of figures today today because that you in has already many given in this chamber and that you in has of elsewhere spoke yesterday .
however , the tragedy human who if product currently in the Western is very serious .
I have spoke yesterday to of the people who if roles of the services of assistance telephone .
they me have indicated that he there had already had eight suicides .
the last in date is extend of a man , father of four children , who if is suicid? after have been forsaken by his wife to because of the difficult situation in which they if twenty .
honourable senators , we are all of the adults responsible .
this crisis is so serious that she served in question our ability of represent our regions and of assume our responsibilities others the country all around .
honourable senators , he there has several subjects whose I like you maintain .
however , I believe that the aspect of the tragedy human is the more important .
we must start a appeal to this regard .
the time press .
he if is guarantee of a situation of emergency who demands that we force of the measures soon now .
the crisis economic current not affects not simply the hailed agricultural .
she has also of the impact on the certified of machinerie , the manufacturers and the employment in his together .
each vendeur of machinerie is a small plant .
you there served to nine the tracteurs and of other unflinching agricultural .
when the farmers not have not of money , these businesses doing bankrupt and of the people lose their employment .
the government need their confidence of the insurance - unemployment .
he is essential of not not let this situation perdurer , of there rectify quickly and effectively .
I like speak of the impact of the crisis in the municipalities rural .
a approximately of municipalities rural have decided , by vote , of until the levy of the taxes local .
I have spoke to the chairman of the board City of the municipality of Wellington , to the North of Weyburn , in Saskatchewan . It has said that this not is not because that the farmers not want not pay their taxes , but well that they not have not the money for the do .
the situation has of the impact on any the Saskatchewan in of many sectors .
honourable senators , I want speak of the impact of this situation on any our nation .
that not involving not simply the Saskatchewan , the Manitoba and some regions of the Alberta , but all the country .
of more , that not if product not simply to the Canada but in the world around , to because of the grants and the rest .
we know all the reasons .
in a section of newspaper , you said that after a behind of nine days , the chairman Clinton has signed a agreed agricultural who provides a assistance of emergency to the farmers of 8,7 billion of $ .
in response to that , the chairman of the Committee of the agriculture has said :
I am happy that the chairman gave signed this bill of bill important , even if I not understand not why he has as eighth .
honourable senators , this is a situation very serious who deserves a debate in this chamber .
of the Senators :
hear !
his Hon. the Speaker :
I wish to remind to the honourable senators that the Rules provides of the interventions of 5 minutes by Senator and 15 minutes of debate to the total .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I rise in as that Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate .
met given that the decision is multitude to the discretion of His Hon. the Speaker , I will be very prudent in my comments .
honourable senators , the Senator Gustafson we has fact share of his intention of raise the question .
we the have listened and we are all to fact prepared to let the Speaker if deal to this about pursuant to the Rules .
I not have not of observation particular to do .
I invoke pointed , however , that we are all well aware of this that the Senator Gustafson has said to comments of the business of the Committee Senate of the agriculture .
we are happy of let to the Speaker the care of decide , pursuant to the Rules , if he if is of a question of interest public high .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
are - you in favour or not ?
the Senator Hays :
I not have not the claim of say to the Speaker what do because that I respect the Rules .
I believe that the Speaker must take a decision in service of this that he has heard .
the Senator Kinsella :
not have - you not of opinion ?
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
there has he or not a crisis ?
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I not have not many of credibility that the Senator Gustafson to this about , but I am the daughter of a farmer of the region of the lakes of the Manitoba .
you debating of the crisis agricultural since of the months .
during this time , the farmers have been accul?s to the foot of the Dickie because that their marges of profit if are resserr?es .
the costs ?chappent to the control of the farmers .
the price are intended by the markets international and they ?chappent also to their control .
the competition is impossible to because of the grants paid by the Union European and the States - United .
even if the farmers can rely on the income of a or two jobs to the outside of the firm , they are loads debt and continuously the bankrupt .
they could losing their land , their heritage , their source of income and the way of life referred they are profoundly attachment .
honourable senators , the tragedies personal not doing not always the subject of emergency national , but I will list few reasons who Senate why the crisis is high to the point of justify a debate of emergency .
of first , the week last , of the producers agricultural and the first ministers of the Manitoba and of the Saskatchewan are came to Ottawa for ask the assistance of the government federal .
they knew that he was essential that the producers receive of other Payments of here December for avoid the bankrupt before the spring .
as we the know , the government has refused of injected of new are of money and the Banking will now forced of proceed to of the saisies .
second , the Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural , who party fill a deficiency in the programs existing of security of the income agricultural , is a disaster .
to the Manitoba , more of 55p. per of the farmers whose the request has been handled until to present not have received no assistance .
third , the impact of the crisis agricultural is severe not only by the hailed agricultural family , but also by almost all the world in environment rural .
the people not can pay their bills .
they sex least of unflinching agricultural .
the ?coliers use their accommodation school of the year modified .
almost all the world must if serrer the belt , rogner on all and barriers .
fourth , the level of stress increase quickly home the farmers and their families and in the communities rural .
he enough of read the letters arises by of the children to the Prime Minister for see to what point the parents are scarce stress?s .
the issues have been clarifi?s and the crisis has been implementation in light during of meetings that I have liberty here and to the Manitoba with of the delegations of farmers d?sesp?r?s .
he we have been very grateful of the have heard here , to the Senate .
they are angry sanity and demoralized by of the forces who ?chappent completely to their control .
how can - we , to the Senate , look the situation if eroded more without give a attention appropriate to their concerns in the framework of a debate of emergency ?
the hon. Ron Ghitter :
honourable senators , I rise for encourage the Speaker to allow the held of a debate of emergency on this about .
in as that citadin , I me sense many more to the comfortable the feet on the asphalte that on the land , but I contemplated the importance of our world agricultural of the point of view of someone a who has been a representative elected in Alberta during eight years and of the point of view of a Senator who has met to numerous occasions of the people abrogate of the world agricultural .
to the over of the years , I require in blaguant my friends farmers of to pleurnichards to , and of people who not are never murmur .
this is be the bad time , be the price of the Wheat , be the amount of the grants , or still the during of the dollar when they hand in break to the sun .
end August , the Senator Gustafson me has guest to a meeting to Ottawa with a group of farmers of the Saskatchewan and of the Alberta .
several of my colleagues were there also .
we have spoke of this that the farmers tarpaper .
this not were not of the people who parlaient senior and strong and who cooperate to draw the attention .
when I the have regard?s in the eyes , I have seen the afraid .
when I the have truthfully , I brief hear in their Senators of the tr?molos trahissant the tears that they pin of clerical .
when I have thought to this that they had to say , I am became very nervous , not only for them , but also for the population agricultural of the Canada .
I have examined this that they had to say , therefore that this that the senators Spivak and Gustafson me had said .
then , when I have toast the graphique who indication that the income agricultural net realized , expressed in $ real of 1998 , was past of 8,700 million of $ that he was of 1993 to 1997 , to 400 million of $ in 1998 , to least 48 million of $ in 99 , I have including this whose they parlaient .
we not we dealing not before a situation where of the people come clamour a little more of assistance to the government .
this are of the people who are to the board of the gulf .
their survival is in considering of if play .
you could if amuser with the figures during still long , but the fact is that the situation is high in the regions rural of the Canada .
in the Western , she is of more in more high ; the figures are effarants .
this is all a way of life who is threatened in the west of the Canada , Your Hon. .
filter of the Manitoba , you know this that that means say .
the communities rural , the control of the resources agricultural , the cost of the foods and the survival of thousands of Canadians are in stake .
I note , by example , that the Senator Hays has should accept a new employment .
the income agricultural has so decreased that he has agreed the position of Leader Deputy to the Senate .
as you the has said , the Divestiture of the Western ...
his Hon. the Speaker :
I regret of duty interrupt the hon. Senator Ghitter , but the period of 15 minutes has expired .
however , he can continue if he otherwise the Authorized .
of the Senators :
of agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker :
please continue .
the Senator Ghitter :
the week last , the Prime Minister Romanow and the Prime Minister Doer were to the head of a delegation , to Ottawa , for ask to the government federal a assistance of 1.3 billion of $ for the farmers .
the farmers of the Western , who believed that a assistance immediate originating , fondaient of great hopes on the meetings .
however , their hopes have been disappointed .
the delegation is repartie the hands vides , except that you him has presented a new series of figures .
I think that the incident has underlined the emergency of the situation , to know that the farmers of the Western wanted solve the crisis the week last .
she not has not been r?solue , and we , senators , must now the examine of any emergency for come immediately in assistance to the farmers of the Western .
if we forward more long , he will can - be too later .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I thank all the senators who have participated to the debate for determine if he there has or not situation high .
as he has been underlined , the Speaker must wishes .
I refer the senators to the subsection 60 ( 1 ) of the Rules , who states the conditions who must be consummate .
I quote :
60 . ( 1 ) has ) must have relates to a emergency real and require the attention immediate of the Senate ;
b ) not must not flourishing a discussion already occasion during the even session pursuant to the present section of the Rules ;
the sub has ) and b ) me created of believe to the well - based of the proposal .
following this that said the notwithstanding who following :
this notwithstanding not if applies not to the proposal to the study .
the notwithstanding who following said follows :
d ) not can raise of about who step essentially a question of privilege .
this notwithstanding not if applies not not more .
I refer now the senators to the subsection 60 ( 6 ) of the Rules , who if reads as following :
60 ( 6 ) has ) in what legislation she has relates to the responsibilities administrative of the government or could met of the jurisdiction of the departments ;
this notwithstanding me allows of conclude to the well - based of the proposal .
according the notwithstanding who following :
60 ( 6 ) b ) why he is little likely that the Senate gave a other opportunity of study the question in a deadline reasonable .
I regret that , in reason of the notwithstanding b ) , the proposal not be not based .
by elsewhere , I not have heard no notice transmission to the conflict of this point of view .
in borders this notwithstanding to the together of the conditions that I must approve , I wants that the leave should be granted .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I like thank His Hon. for his decision , that we respect .
however , we not had not expected that .
he there has of the committees who sit this after - afternoon .
I like ask to the honourable senators of well front accept that this debate not gave not held to the time where the provides the Rules , to know after the Order of the day , but rather to 20 p.m. .
this is a day where we granted generally a sitting relatively short order of allow to our committees of vaquer to their business .
we respect the decision and are loans to debate this question , but we watchdog that the debate gave held to 20 p.m. .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the House has recognized that a case of a great importance for the Canada if presented to we .
this is a emergency .
you not needy the postpone .
we going bouleverser the conduct evolve of our business for address a question who , of the notice of this side - side of the House , step a emergency national , a great crisis , a quibbling that we not entertain back to more later .
hence why we not side not supportive to the postponement of this debate .
we want in debate to the end of the Order of the day , before any other question .
honourable senators , I acknowledge that the question of ...
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I point the Rules .
the Leader Deputy of the Opposition votes a speech .
I have asked the leave , with ground to the support .
to my notice , a simple to not to enough if this leave is disposed .
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , this is exactly .
you not have clearly not read the decision decided yesterday by His Hon. the Speaker .
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , the things not are not also simple that that .
a part of the intervention of the Leader Deputy of the government respect the business of some committees .
I like answer to this point .
if this is particularly necessary that the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications seat in even time that the Senate , we , of this side - side , side of agreed for the there Authorize .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the leave of amend the Rules is disposed .
the Rules specific very clear that the debate of emergency will held after the exhaustion of the Order of the day or , to the more later , to 20 p.m. this night .
honourable senators , I draw your attention on the subsection 60 ( 4 ) of the Rules .
in under of this clause , he is clear that to the Speaker , to the held of move to the appeal of the to D?clarations of senators to , give the speak to the senators who have given of the notice ... to
in of other words , the debate of emergency the precedence on the to D?clarations of senators . to
the subsection said to held of move to the appeal ... to
in under of this clause , he not there will not of statements of senators today today .
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
transport and Communications
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the subsection 58 ( 1 ) has ) of the Rules move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications be authorized to sit to 15 p.m. 30 today today , the 3 November 99 , well that the sitting of the Senate can be in during , and that the application of the subsection 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Committee of selection
Presented of the fourth report
the hon. L?once Mercier :
honourable senators , I have the honour of present the fourth report of the Committee of selection Authorize on the along of the senators who will members of the various committees special during the presented session .
his Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when taken - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Mercier , the study of the report is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting )
the Code criminal
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I have the honour of present the bill of bill S - 9 , Act designed to amend the Code criminal ( abuse of procedure ) .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we the bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Cools , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the sitting of Wednesday next , the 10 November 99 . )
the Union Parliamentary
the four - ninety - ten - eighteenth conference held to Oulan Batour , in Mongolie - Tabled of the report of the group Canadian
the hon. Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , I have the privilege of table the report of the delegation Parliamentary to the following of a meeting of the Group Asia - Pacific of the Union Parliamentary who has had held to Oulan Batour , in Mongolie , of the 26 to the 31 July 99 .
the Act on the languages official
the services in French offered to the francophones outside Quebec - Notice of inquiry
the hon. Jean - Maurice Simard :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Tuesday 16 November 99 , I call the attention of the Senate on the situation who prevails currently opposite - to - opposite the development and the healthy of the communities francophones and acadiennes , of his deteriorating step , of the d?sengagement of the governments to the Canada to the during of the ten past years and of the loss of accessibility of the services in French .
I lead of the opportunity for table my report entitled : to De the cutting to the accolade , a suddenly of heart if fact expect to .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Court Supreme
the appointment of the hon. Beverley McLachlin to the position of Justice in Leader
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , as he not there has not had of period allocated to the statements of senators today today , I will ask a question .
this is a question very better that I will ask to the Leader Deputy of the government .
there will he a ceremony special for celebrate the event particular who just of have held ?
I want speak of a event historic in our country and in the world around - the appointment of her the Justice Beverley McLachlin to the position of Justice in Leader of the Court Supreme of the Canada .
the hon. Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate not appropriate - he not that a statement is of implementation for highlight a event also extraordinary ?
the Senate is the wharfinger of the tradition and he is all to fact indicated that he points the event .
I not want not enter a debate to this about , but of other senators have can - be few words to say on this event historic majeur .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I just all fair of learn the new and I in am delighted .
the question of the Senator could be doubly of various ways .
he request that the senators carry do of the comments on this event grand soon today today , even now , then that normally , they the carelessly to the during of the period allocated to the statements of senators .
I think power say to the behalf of my colleagues that he would indeed appropriate of comment now the announcement of this appointment .
following the precedent established by my counterpart , the Leader Deputy of the Opposition , I happiest of this that I am stand for express the exhibited happy and the pride that I charge in highest that the hon. Beverley McLachlin remplacera the Justice in Leader Lamer of the Court Supreme of the Canada .
her the Justice McLachlin if is powerful as lawyer and as Justice .
we all who have had the privilege of allowed the right are very proud of she .
my colleagues and me accept that of other senators taking few times for comment this event grand .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , you request the leave of hear now of the comments on the about raised by the hon. Senator homme man .
the leave is - she granted ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
not .
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
could - you we say what will the impact on the period of the questions ?
his Hon. the Speaker :
the Senator Forrestall :
I not wanted not refuse the consent .
I was simply puzzling of know the impact that the proposal would on the length portion of the period of the questions .
the Defence national
the restructuring of the units of contingency of the Canada Atlantic - Conformity 1 Regiment of Turkey of campaign of the Artillerie Royal Canadian
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I have a question to ask to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
that goes to a discussion that I have reflected with his predecessor to the about of the restructuring of the units of contingency to the Canada .
some units are Answers as met classes , and of other as met not classes .
without too impediment the things , he not there has not of doubt in my spirit that I have been seriously detrimentally in mistake .
I have chosen of add faith to that because that three or four persons different were in considering of answer to the request of information .
that respect the 1 regiment of campaign of the Artillerie Royal Canadian , whose the Headquarters General if find to Halifax .
this is a unity that the Minister knows strong well and whose he is without doubt enough proud in as that Scotians - Scotians .
you has recognized to this unity a level of troop in activity of 93,1p. per and a rate of efficiency of 88,5p. per .
you account to the least 15 units of contingency to the Canada who are qualifi?es of not classes .
however , no of between they not has a file similar .
that has fall any a brouille between the apparatus of the contingency to the Canada and the government present , for of the reasons as those - side , I suppose .
I believe that this unity deserves of the apologize .
I think that the human any pantheon for do these apologize is none other that the Minister responsible of the Nova - Nova .
I not request not of the negotiations extensive to this regard , but of simple apologize for the mistake , little important how she has been commise .
the Minister can - he ask a reassessment of the rating granted to this unity historic of the Nova - Nova to the during of the process of reassessment ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , to my knowledge , the government has always seconded the role important that plays the contingency in all the country .
I know that , in my region , we going move a undertake for two biographies facilities to Sydney , in Nova - Nova , who corollary to the contingency .
I believe know that these facilities improve far the operating of the contingency in the region .
the unity to which the hon. Senator fact referring , the 1 regiment of campaign of the Artillerie Royal Canadian , is a unity remarkable whose all the Scotians - Scotians can be proud .
I him request of do evidence of a little of patience , the time that I me seek deposited of the Minister to this about .
I hope power provide to the Senator Forrestall a response specific to his question .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , far of me the idea of speak to the behalf of the regiment .
of a other side , the Lieutenant - Colonel Doyle has left hear , in the comments that he has facts he there has few months , that to his notice , the least that can do the CFT for already the situation would of if apologize .
this unity is viable and should be r?tablie .
this is can - be the a of the units the more classes to the Canada .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator for this information .
I rise very to the seriously the States of service of the regiment referred he fact referring .
I date of have of more forth details on this question and of provide to the Senator a response satisfactorily .
the Senate
the efforts designed to increase the representation of the minorities visible
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the week last , I have attended to a conference who had held to Ottawa .
I have found during of this event that the government of the Canada had failed miserably for this who is of open the service public to the minorities visible .
according the last report on the equity in the employment , only 9 200 of the 190 100,000 officials federal if say them - same members of minorities visible .
that represents approximately 5 per , be least of the half of the 11 per that the minorities visible represent to the within of the population Canadian .
to the Senate , according the past statistics that I have could obtain , 1,2p. per of the employees are members of minorities visible .
the House of second reflection hook seriously of the front and not has not known draw a standard formed to the representation of the minorities visible to the within of all the businesses and of the agencies of the government of the Canada .
the Leader of the government to the Senate we tell he what plans strategic are in during of development , if he there in has , for improve the representation of the minorities visible to the Senate of the Canada ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the question in is a who concern all the government , and not only the Senate .
in fact , of the efforts are Process since a sure time already for do in sort that the percentage of positions busy by of the members of the minorities visible to the government reflects the percentage that these minorities represent to the within of the population active .
the objectives not have not still been achieved .
however , he there has of the warning encouraged .
of the statistics recent that I not have not in labour indicate that the members of the minorities visible seem obtain of the promotions in of the risen correspondent to their percentage to the within of the service public .
this is well , but the situation not is not fully satisfactorily .
the figures seem when even indication a improvement .
course , we seek always to achieve our objective , who is a representation to the within of the service public and of the Senate who reflects the percentage that represent the minorities visible in the population in General .
the development of the resources human
the efforts designed to increase the representation of the minorities visible
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate could - he convey these concerns to the cabinet and awareness his colleagues to the important problem of the representation inad?quate of the minorities visible to the echelons senior of the service public ?
when the Minister find the statistics that he has mentioned , he could can - be inventory a list and communicate to the Senate the number of under - ministers and of under - ministers assistants who are members of minorities visible in the service public Canadian , and provide of the statistics for the Senate him - even ?
if commitment he to do that ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I will certainly contribute to the Senate and give to all those that that interest the report that I have mentioned .
I not the have not under the labour in the time .
however , I have thought that this report could interest the Senator because that he evidence not only the percentage of minorities visible , but also how these minorities visible seem current in the entirely .
I me commitment to provide these information to the Senator .
for this who is of the Senate , the question could interest to fair payments the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration .
the Senator Oliver :
honourable senators , I not have never participated to the business of this Committee .
I hope that , in the fiscal of his duties , the Leader of the government to the Senate related do evidence of initiative and that he we seek these questions .
the Minister says that the situation if improving .
I him request of produce the list of the under - ministers and under - ministers assistants doing part of the minorities visible for the good reason that I know approximately that they are if little many that the Minister in will g?n? .
the improvements experienced he fact referring have been observed to the echelons lower of the service public , this who is bashful .
the Nations overseeing
the disarmament nuclear - Position policy of the government opposite to the resolution of the New Agenda Coalition
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate can - he indication if the Canada votera indeed in favour of the resolution of the New Agenda Coalition , currently to the study to the Nations overseeing , who instructions of / without more delay the negotiations before ending to the implementation in place of a program of disarmament nuclear ?
I have already asked the question yesterday to the Minister .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank our the hon. Senator of have renewed his question today today .
he not me has not still been given of in speak with the Minister of the Affairs foreign and of the Trade international .
the Canada has often and assiduously seconded the program of disarmament nuclear , that he if abhorrent of consistently of Order General or enable as the treatment of the Contents dangerous left after the disarmament nuclear .
for this who is of the question raised , I not like not answer to the place of the Minister responsible and I am sure of power rapporter his response very quickly to the hon. Senator .
the Senator Roche :
I thank the Minister of this response .
I ask to the Leader of the government to the Senate of the convey of any emergency because that the vote to the Nations overseeing if incorporated to the beginning of the week next .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I acknowledge the jurisdiction of the hon. Senator in the Equity and the role startling that he has played in the questions of disarmament .
I happy delighted of receive these documents and I him mud of speak to the Minister before the end of the week .
the Affairs foreign
the new ambassador deposited of the Organization World of the trade - Position possible of a contract of consultation with the employer of the former ambassador - Request of Tabled of documents
the hon. James F . Kelleher :
Mr. . Marchi has replaced a official very respected having more of 20 years of experience in Equity of trade international , Mr. John Weekes .
you you rappellerez can - be that , the week last , Mr. Weekes has been elected to the position prestigious of chairman of the Council General of the WTO , who includes more of 130 members .
according a section of the National Financial in date of the 12 October 99 , Mr. Weekes has awarded his first interview since that he has been ?vinc? of the position of ambassador of the Canada deposited of the WTO and has said that he was now chairman responsible of the practices trade global for APCO , who is a cabinet American of expert - advice .
the section indicates also Mr. Weekes continues of be a advisor Main deposited of the government Canadian .
the Senator Kinsella :
this is a good question .
yes or not ?
the Senator Kelleher :
a simple response will the case .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
thank , hon. Senator .
I want well answer also briefly and also directly that possible , but a response by yes or by not not sufficient can - be not .
I not known not the former Incumbent of the position .
he must clearly be a man very distinguished for have could if find also quickly a position also important in the sector private .
I known the Incumbent present , who affiche a record very distinguished not only on the scene public , to the government , but also in the sector of the trade .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
the file of the MMT was the fun , not is - this not ?
the Senator Boudreau :
his history must generally be well viewed .
the experience that he has granted in the sector of the trade and to the government doing of him exactly the type of candidate who agreeable to this kind of position .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
he has voted against the free - Exchange , you in ability - you ?
the Senator Boudreau :
I am course that no of between we not wish that ensure ?cart?s of the candidates simply because that they have took share to the life public , as we the do now .
I congratulate the government of the appointment of the Incumbent present .
for this who is of the markets conclude with of the consultants , I am sure that the government of the Canada has regularly Order to the services of consultants for various business .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
of the people that he cong?die ?
the Senator Boudreau :
the human in because is - she to the number of the consultants , I not floor the confirm .
if she is used to this payments , I am sure that the government receives of good services in tax of the remuneration construct .
the Senator Kelleher :
honourable senators , I then guarantee to the Leader of the government to the Senate Mr. John Weekes is very department .
to the end of the months , the Canada and 130 other country if meeting to Miami for start the next series of negotiations of the WTO .
as these negotiations could have of major impact on the Canada , he is important that the Canadians shifted fully confidence in the management of these negotiations to Geneva .
to the behalf of the transparency and for concerning any uncertainty to the about of the market of APCO before the meeting of the WTO to Miami , the Leader of the government thereon he the contract and the documents related , there including those who originated the appeal of bidding and the Helicopter of the market ?
the Senator Boudreau :
he is responsible of the file and I not pretend not him deleted this responsibility .
I will him convey the request of the Senator , who means obtain of more forth details on this contract .
the Finance
the d?valuation of the dollar - Conformity influence on the Purchase of companies Canadian by of the interests foreign
the hon. Gerry Germain :
he there has had a ment following to the sales of MacMillan Bloedel , company Canadian established of long date , to Weyerhaeuser , great conglom?rat American who has advantage of this that a great number of between we corporate be a way devastating of the share of the government of manage our system tax and Monetary in leaving the dollar Canadian be also d?valu? that he the is to the hour current .
this morning , I have fact the trajet since Toronto with a young man who has always been a Liberal , but who is all to fact disgusted of see all these businesses be achet?es by of the Americans and of other , virtually to half price .
the Minister has he of the comments to grave relatively to the fact that these major companies Canadian if doing offset by of the businesses foreign ?
I not say not that he must return to the terrible Agency of review of the Investment abroad implementation on foot by the government Liberal Mr. Trudeau , but I think that he there has a problem when you loses of major companies as MacMillan Bloedel .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the comments of the hon. Senator me interested cleansing .
of any obviously , the value of our Greeks creates a dynamic economic who can standard various consequences or various events , according the circumstances .
I am surprised of learn that , in General , the representatives of the sector of the resources natural if opposed to the pleasant of the dollar Canadian .
I chair believed that , in well of the case , that their offrirait a advantage extraordinary when just the time of sell their products across in the world .
I not am not expert of the industry of the lumber of sciage , but I know that , in of many branches of the sector of the resources natural , the pleasant of the dollar Canadian has offered of great benefits to our producers , this who has even contributed to create of the jobs and to stimulate the activity economic .
the pleasant of the dollar Canadian has therefore had , of the least to some ways , of the impact positive on the sector of the resources natural .
this that he must clerical , by against , this is that the pleasant of the dollar makes the acquisition of companies Canadian very innermost to those who hold of the $ U.S. and who liquidity of such tip more interesting that words .
he not must particularly not forget that our Greeks is flottante and that she find she - even his own level .
this will of elsewhere always the case , to least that we not hurt loans to revising in depth the policy of the Bank of the Canada .
in this who respect the tip by of the interests foreign , he there can - be of other solutions that the Agency of review of the Investment abroad .
the hon. Senator in has can - be even some to we propose .
the St. Germain :
honourable senators , the Leader talking of the pleasant of the dollar Canadian and of the sector resource .
this is really a false economy because , in some case , that we has led to become least competitive .
that has led to these terrible quota fallacious on the lumber of implement , who have set a real nightmare .
that has CRTC the development of any industry in a province , because without quota , you not can open a scierie .
that affects a series of problems to this about .
this is really prosecutors .
honourable senators , I believe that , in the framework of solutions to short term , the government has continued the rate of interest to a level too lower and this is this who has led to the d?valuation of this dollar flottant .
in as that special , our hampered by report to the rest of the world has been reduced .
to the airport Heathrow , he in costs 15 books for a small - Tongues , this who represents , except mistake , 45 $ Canadian approximately .
that mine completely our ability of remain competitive individually on the market world .
the Senator Taylor :
this Mr. Mulroney who has began all that .
the St. Germain :
listen , you have had your fortunate .
you operate you mothballing of the GST and of all these other measures and you not in have nothing fact , Mr. .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I the say humbly , I not am not of agreed with my hon. colleague on a sure number of points .
the St. Germain :
I hope that this is the case .
the Senator Boudreau :
some of these difference touch even the Greeks .
for my share , I not am not in favour of that .
when you is against a rate of change fixed and the keeping artificial of the dollar Canadian to a level more high by report to the dollar American , he must then create of the conditions who hand takes the Submarine of the value of our dollar .
I like that the hon. Senator far that I am favourable to a rate of change flottant .
I find that this is a good average of correct the situation for the two major economies , the States - United and the Canada , who can therefore if adjust the a to the other .
I rest in favour of a rate of change flottant and , must - I add , I not sometimes not to me decide to pr?ner a increase of the rate of interest .
I not can not be of agreed with the hon. Senator , who is of notice that this is good for the country of abolish the rate of interest .
I not can all simply not the admit .
well of the people of the industry of the resources natural with capably I me am spoken have learned party of a dollar Canadian low .
however , with a rate of change flottant , the dollar Canadian finit by find the level who is the fun .
to least that we not hurt loans to adopt a sure number of measures Draconian , a rate of change Related or a increase of the rate of interest by example , the dollar Canadian continue of find his own level .
I not happy not prepared to me deal in favour of rate of interest notablement more high .
I not know not if the senators of in opposite there are supportive , but I not believe not that our party there be favourable .
Questions delayed to of the questions Oral
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have the response research to a question that the hon. Senator Lowell Murray has raised the 13 October 99 to the Senate to the about of the responsibility of the timetables of the sites of wastes toxiqueS , in Nova - Nova therefore that a response to a question that the hon. Senator Donald Oliver has raised to the Senate the 13 October 99 to the about of the funding of the prospect of the damage occur by the floods in the coincidental of Colchester .
the environment
the Nova - Nova - Position responsibility of the timetables of the sites of wastes toxic
( response to the question raised by the hon. Lowell Murray the 13 October 99 )
the privatization next of the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape ( SDCB ) has raised of the concern regarding the rehabilitative of the property h?rit?es or learning by the Corporation since his creation in 1967 .
as indicated in the Debates of the Senate of the 13 October last , the responsibility and the business related to the Municipality of the sites miniers current and abandoned of the SDCB describes to this last .
of elsewhere , in his report annual ( designed the period who if end the 31 March 99 ) , the SDCB has fact his better estimate of the cost expected of the questions Environmental ( d?molition of vessels , prospect , business of terrassement , treatment of the waters and other business of rehabilitative ) .
of after the better estimate of the leadership of the cost for if conform to the requirements of the laws and regulations relevant , and a assessment afford by the delaying of engineers - advice Senes , the cost expected of model of the damage occur to the environment if 4,400 to 110 million of $ .
environment Canada generous of the advice technical and scientific to the SDCB on the questions revitalizing and future related to the activities of Municipality of this last , the objective met of ensure to this that these activities view to the requirements of the laws and regulations on the protection of the environment .
the Defence national
the Nova - Nova - Position responsibility of the prospect of the damage occur by the floods in the coincidental of Colchester
( response to the question raised by the Donald H . Oliver the 13 October 99 )
the government of the Nova - Nova is in considering of assessment the damage to the infrastructure public occur by the storm .
the authorities provincial are conscientes of the Availability of the support financial federal , in under of the Accords of assistance financial in case of disaster ( Accords AFC ) , and they familiar the criteria of Eligibility .
the business of the Senate
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I believe that we have need of Criminals for know who are the senators faced , in under of the Rules , we can ask of the questions during the period of the questions .
I have the Appendix that the questions can be arises to the chairmen of the various committees and to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
I believe well that the first question who has been raised today today if rallies to the Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate .
if I had known that this was consistent to the Rules , the Senator Carstairs and me - even gone had many more of trade that we not in have always to the during of the last session .
he would useful that you we specific if the Leader Deputy of the government is the a of the senators to who of the questions can be arises during the period of the questions .
his Hon. the Speaker :
in the absence of the Leader of the government to the Senate , the Leader Deputy has the usual of answer to the questions in the legislation where he the can .
however , when the Leader of the government is present , the questions must him be arises .
Order OF orders
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the directed in response - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Vodrey , seconded by the hon. Senator Furey , seconded to the Adopted of a Adresse to His Excellency the Gouverneure general in response to the speech that contemporaries has sir during of the openness of the second session of the 30 - sixth Parliament . - (
the hon. Marie - P .
he there has well long that you we had presented a speech also ?clatant of optimism relatively to the possible of capitaliser on the enormous potential of our country full of richesses .
with the end of the millennium are apparus of the opposed , of the adherents of cultes and of the proph?tes of gloom with their chapelet of predictions and of exhortations d?primantes regarding the end of the century .
they not doing not the negative opposite to the effervescence and to the force that appreciates those and those who support the government .
we are distinct by the accomplishments of the Canada to the during of the 20 century and we problem with confidence and exaltation the challenges that arise the next century and the new millennium .
honourable senators , the speech of the Throne has given the lately to the way whose we going initiate the new era .
we not problem not the future the eyes agendas and we not are not exhibiting in the past .
we recognize that some mistakes have been avid , but they have been completely ?clips?es by our accomplishments .
we have learned of the lessons of our mistakes and we modernized of new mountains .
but we can influence the evolution by the effort , by the conviction , by the determination , by our courage , by our work , by our Innovation , by our creativity , by our motivator and particularly in setting the benchmarks for grow in partnership with of other governments , in partnership with the sector private and particularly in giving the example .
honourable senators , we can achieve of the mountains inimaginables in the field of the Arts and of the Science , of the research and of the development , of the progress social , of the promotion of the growth personal and particularly of the promotion of the peace and the good showing to the country .
the Canada , my friends , is the better place where live .
through to a good planning of the share of the government present and to the inaction of all the Canadians , we have succeeded to reliance the scourge of the debt .
he not if is not of a vision newest and ?ph?m?re ; she if support on of the values concrete and practices .
honourable senators , the speech of the Throne and the remarks who have been followed by the following by the Prime Minister have licences of establish a framework of action realistic .
the process is already in during and we comptons well build this vision cornerstone by cornerstone , a morceau to the time .
honourable senators , my great - father was menuisier in the North of the Ontario , to Sudbury .
we have learned as child and small - child that for grow , he must that our home be b?tie on a foundation strong , Motor , admired .
this is this that our government we has offered since six years and this is this that our government will continue to do , because we have well including the speech of the Throne .
honourable senators , all that speaks on the return of the health tax , the Elimination of the deficit paralysant and a attack direct of the debt Stacking .
our economy is in full growth .
the rate unemployment is low , the inflation also , the exports taxes , the taxes start to pretending and the salaries taxes .
this is a cornerstone very important , the cornerstone cornerstone of the commitment of the government present opposite to the institution of a Canada strong where could coexister the desirability and the compassion , where the confidence in itself and the dignity human not would not sacrifi?es on the altar of the hampered and of the ambition .
the strategy designed to pay possible this vision starts to fair payments with our children .
I will list the measures that the government has already implemented in implement : the Program of nutrition pr?natale ; the Program of assistance pr?scolaire to the aboriginal ; the Subvention Canadian for the savings - studies ; of the rendering paramount for fees of Access of children ; the Prestation national for children to the intention of the families to low and to average income ; and the not - tax of the determined for the support of a child .
you announcement in addition of the cong?s of motherhood and parentaux more extensive , of the agreements federal - provincial on a support increased for the development of the children in lower age , of the Low tax who comma more of money between the hands of the families , of the conditions of work who boat account of the needs of the families , the reform of the right of the family , a Investment important in the Prestation national for children and of best opportunities of learning through to the expansion of the program Rescol .
honourable senators , I am pleased of see that the enthusiasm and the skills technological of the young Canadians will used to of the purposes useful who their enable of if serve of their talents and of essential a experience to the level national and international .
I me bornerai to appoint four initiatives to this regard : first , trade Canada , who provide double to a million of young Canadians the fortunate of study in a other region of the country ; second , the hiring of tens of thousands of young volunteers Canadian in of the bills community and of the bills environmental national , and also order of help of other persons to improve their capabilities of Reading and of drama ; third , the possible for the young Canadians of put to profit their energy and their talents to the abroad , in the framework of programs of worthwhile international , including in progressive of the country in development to if plug on the Internet ; and fourth , the hiring of young Canadians for help the communities rural and urban to put on foot of the sites Internet for the public .
in the purpose of support the sector of the education , the government has announced and to already developed in place the Foundation Canadian of the scholarships of the millennium , whose the per 100,000 first $ will register in January ; the Subvention Canadian for the savings - studies , the deduction of the interests fellows on the loans students , and the use of the RRSPs to the purposes of training .
of any obviously , the realizing of our vision is well divestiture .
she includes of the commitments others our environment , the promotion of the trade commercial , the investment , the research and the development , the entrepreneuriat and the partnerships .
this is the leadership who raises the enthusiasm and the optimism , who we value to act , who we fact current , who we stimulates and who we encourage to we adapt to of the ideas and of the technologies new .
honourable senators , I have spoke of the cornerstone cornerstone of the vision , our children and our young .
I have spoke of our responsibilities financial , of the obligation of protect the environment , therefore that of the need of preserve the programs social .
all that is threatened if we not g?n?rons not a climate favourable to the environment of the Affairs and in which the businesses , small and major , can vibrant .
without investment , without entrepreneurs , without the knowledge necessary in a economy represents on the know , we conscious of losing the Position gazed whose we happen in the world .
we have many to losing : a community of communities cultural diversified , prosperous , compatissantes and attentionn?es who if spread of a coast to the other .
this is the reason for which I am spend that the speech of the Throne , that the Prime Minister has more later reprinted and ?toff? , gave also brought on the trade and on the Investment .
I have took happy to hear that , for keep and draw the best and the more brilliant of our fellow , we must do evidence of a spirit of imagination novateur .
the cooperation between the governments , the universities , the institutions of research and the sector private is essential if we want remain to the before - Access of the competition World .
he is therefore appropriate that the government if move of increase the support to the research by the through of our various agencies granting whose the Council of research medical , the Council of research in Science human and the Council of research in Science natural and in genius .
the proposal of create in all the Canada 2 100,000 new chaires of excellence in research is a initiative before - gardiste , all as of elsewhere the bill of create the Institute Canadian of research in health .
in the response of the Prime Minister to the speech of the Throne , he there has a from who pretends strong well the efforts of the government for promote the research .
he worth the worthy of be reiterated :
honourable senators , in showing a strategy who int?gre the economy , the policy social and the environment , the government recognizes also that , also well yesterday that ensure his direction and his programs , they not can be effective without the sector private .
this is the sector private who is the drives of the economy .
the government can offer the tools , but this are the extinction of the businesses who doing operate the equipment and who produced the property and services who must be sold here and to the abroad .
we have all heard speak of the claimed drain of the drain .
in showing his vision of the future , the government has met the conditions winners for keep and draw the best researchers , the best commensurate , the best producers and the best commercialistes to the world .
as they come of all the regions of the chorus , who of other could better we help to do competition to the country foreign ?
as I have chaired a under - Committee who has presented his findings to the Senate in June , I am outset that the Canada is in legislation of support the competition in the sectors in evolution of the ordinatique .
this objective , that the Prime Minister has guest the sector private to achieve , represents a quibbling of 200 billion of $ for the businesses .
we have a vision of the Canada .
this vision is similar of a society modern , who if is b?tie through to the sharing of experiences and of values , of a society who is outcome of a determination to intolerance against the statehood , to basic the excellence , of a society who fact the envy of the other .
honourable senators , hence this that is the Canada , our Canada , extend of today today and of tomorrow .
the hon. Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators , the speech of the Throne gravity the program of the government for the new millennium and we presented a plan and a list of priorities who 18.7 that the children will to the before - scene in the Budgets to come .
we see , between other , a together of programs reasonable for the children , a increase of the Estimates and of the benefits accorded to the families poor and to their children , a break of motherhood paid , of the housing for the without - homeless and a Program of action national for the children .
hence of the reasons valid and sens?es for the government of Services of the Estimates during that he piling a surplus .
in fact , this are of the objectives laudable .
however , what is the date target ?
what programs are Softwood for put end to the poverty of the children and when regards - we in place a strategy national ?
well that the Canadians having including the need of increase the Estimates to the payments of the programs social shifted appreciate the speech of the Throne , they have however been disappointed that the government gave neglected of propose a plan of action for help the more terror .
that comptons - we do for relieve the difficulties of the Canadians who have been private of their rights ?
the fight against the poverty to the Canada proceeded by the perseverance , the determination , the commitment , the compassion and the actions concrete .
h?las , the 12 October last , the government not we has served that a list of priorities .
he must that the Canadians and the delay of tomorrow carry say , in considering the present Parliament , that he if counsellors of men and of women profoundly to build a Canada more strong and a better quality of life for their children and their grandchildren - children .
in my quality of Chairman of the group of work of the Party Progressive - Conservative on the poverty , I me am entretenue with many of individuals and of advocates of the poor of a across to the other of the country .
their testimony d?nonce the burden enormous of the poverty , also well for the individuals that for the society .
many of persons have indicated that the programs of fight against the poverty not expect not that improve the situation of the commuting - small of today today , but they strengthen also the prospects socio?conomiques future of the Canada .
this are there two elements inseparable , honourable senators .
a good policy economic affects inevitably a good policy social .
the a not will not without the other .
he not is not vital of remind to the senators that the poverty to the Canada has reached of the risen surviving .
not we talking you not without tirelessly of the million of grandchildren Canadians who live under the below of the poverty ?
the Winter met soon to our doors , the families are of more in more many to duty if atteler to the painful task of seek a housing .
the speech of the Throne not has spent that a half - line to the without - homeless .
by contrast , the 26 October , the daily Ottawa Citizen has released a section inspired on Catherine Luxton , a fillette employees years who has took conscience of the new magnitude of the problem of the itin?rance .
she has decided , with the assistance of his father , of do someone something for help the n?cessiteux .
the Luxton if are set a objective .
he hand hear of the funds for buy 50 100,000 meals chauds to distribute to the without - homeless of the region of Ottawa .
as he is prestige of see a young daughter recognize a need stages in our society and decide of do someone something immediately for rectify to the situation .
why the government takes - he if long before of in do many ?
of the thousands of Canadians live in the parks , under the bridges , in the streets .
this are the citizens overlooked of our society .
the problem of the without - homeless is a problem real and serious referred too of Canadians are face today today ; this is a problem whose I hoping that the government treating length in the speech of the Throne .
mother Teresa we has developed in Access when she has said :
we basis considered , you and me , in service of this that we do for the poor .
now that the budget is exc?dentaire , I hope that the government in commonly for if attack seriously to the problem stages and pressing of the poverty to the Canada before that come for him the hour of the judgment last .
the vision aired in the speech of the Throne has statement the direction that the government committed take in the year who just .
I congratulate the government of have had the pr?voyance of recognize that a Investment in the first years of our children is a Investment in the future of our country .
however , for rompre the graduate of the poverty , he must give to all the children to the Canada a fortunate equal of enable all their potential .
he is sad of see that they not in have not the possible today today .
if we could rectify with success to the conditions Social who perp?tuent the poverty Bankers , honourable senators , we could rise a new generation of children - of the children whose the needs essential are combl?s for that they carry become of the members of the society Canadian in good health , self and educated .
the Prime Minister has said :
we must move also quickly that possible of the words to the actions .
these words not want nothing say , account held of the fact that in 1989 , a resolution designed to eliminate the poverty home the children before the year 2000 has been agreed by all the parties to the other place .
honourable senators , ten years have past and he is yet bashful of see that the government has fact well little for esteem the grandchildren Canadians , whose a on five has the vomit rhetoric .
to legislation that the poverty if r?pand to the Canada , this promise in the air of the government suggests least of hope .
the government has promised of new investment in the Prestation national for children , but since he there has a surplus today today , why expected - he to tomorrow for take of the measures ?
when he has met the poor across to the Canada , the group of work on the poverty of the caucus national of the Party Progressive - Conservative has often and clear heard say that the time is came for the government federal of r?indexer the Prestation national for children to the rate of inflation .
to the during of the last session , the member Progressive - Conservative of Shefford , to the Quebec , has presented a motion of the even kind to the other place .
the government Liberal has revealed that he entendait spend a billion of $ for expand the break of motherhood and the bringing of six months to a year .
I me delighted of this initiative and of the pr?voyance that has the government in grateful that he is important that the parents pressing of the time with their children during the first years of training .
however , when you there problems to two time , you if request who to the fair advantage of this grant .
account held of the changes Own on the market of the work , he there has many of workers contractual and self .
gold , these people not doing not part of the regime of insurance - employment .
of more , this legislation not fact nothing for help those who are excluded of the market of the work paid .
she not meets not to the needs of the women to low income who not able not benefit of a break of motherhood if their earnings not commuting not of money .
that in is - he of the Leader of a family monoparentale who not can rely that on him - even or she - even ?
I believe power say that this not is not the question of the break of motherhood who concern the unemployed Canadian , but well similar who introducing to find the means of put of the lifeline on the table .
the Nations overseeing have said that the Canada was the better country to the world for live .
yet , 5.2 million of Canadians live under the below of the poverty .
the 12 October last , the Canadians had need that you their revealing a plan showing of the solutions concrete order of eliminate the poverty , the number of the without - homeless and the need of have of the Banking of foods .
unfortunately , they have heard of waves promises who would conducted in a deadline approximatif .
to the enter of the 21 century , I implore the government of adopt a Position courageuse and audacieuse , of do a effort concert? and of if Services to abolish the level of life order of do of the vision aired in the speech of the Throne a reality for the terror .
I the implore of reduce the gap between the rich and the poor , of majorer the Benefit tax for child , of abolish the below of assujettissement to the tax , of r?indexer the tax on the income of the special for protect the gains of the inflation and of improve the program of insurance - employment for that all those who in have need receive of the benefits , this who reduce the ins?curit? financial of the Canadians to the taken with the new market of the work .
the government has for duty of ensure a level of life d?cent to all his citizens .
Tagore , a poet indien , has wrote :
I have Fee and I have r?v? that the life was joy , says me am coined and I have seen that the life was duty , says have acted and I have found that the duty was joy , says wish to the government of know the joy !
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , to the about of the decision any recent of the Court Supreme of the Canada , the 17 September 99 , five judges of the Court Supreme of the Canada , in appeal of the Court of appeal of Nova - Nova , have administering that in under of rights abrogate of treaties who have been sign?sle 10 March 1760 , Donald Marshall not was not held of if conform to the regulatory on the fisheries .
I like draw your attention on of the considerations and a context historic who not have not been took in consideration by the Court Supreme and who indicate that the treaty of 1760 not is not unfortunate .
in consequential , the court should return on his decision .
let - me of quote a committee m?morable of this judgment .
he not needy ask least of the honour and of the dignity of the Crown in his reports with the First Nations .
pareils feelings pieces a h?ro?sme chevaleresque , of the makers of basic officers and of generous officials .
the judges could can - be ask that a ratio in memory of the Governor Lawrence , signatory of the document of 1760 , be secured on the pelouses before the Court Supreme for that they not politicking never the negative of their decision .
gold , five years to worthy before of sign this document now weakened , the Governor Acting Lawrence signed , the 11 August 1755 , a other document giving of the instructions to the Colonel John Winslow .
for occurrences and arrangement the population , you someday have Order to the means the more safest and , according the circumstances , you serve of the ruse or of the force .
I wishes particularly that you teniez no account of the supplications and of the Petitions that you adresseront the population , what that ensure those who wish stay .
a be ignoble , gorg? of his authority military , who , disguised and of his own initiative and without the leave of his senior , has given the Order of stop , of evidence and of d?porter 15 100,000 men , women and children , whose the half has canoe during the d?portation .
this is the even man who has signed the treaty of 1760 .
r?fl?chissons a little to the magnitude of the fault .
the Order transgressait openly the section 29 of the Britain Charter of England .
he enfreignait the P?tition of rights of 1628 .
absolutely nothing not allows of believe that the Communities acadiennes remettaient in question the regime British .
in assuming that some Acadians shifted committed of the mischief political , he not properly no bill British or other Authorize the punish of their women and of their children .
nothing , if this not is a Order of the Parliament , not could review a about British of his country , even if he if 13 of a criminal .
the treaty of Utrecht of 1713 , and the ascertain of the Queen Anne du23 June 1713 , have expanded the protection cheap by the treaty .
they stipulent that the Acadians have of the rights on their Lands and that they not can be expelled to least of a sentence decided by a court .
that a member of the executive , who was a simple Lieutenant - Governor , gave r?pudi? a prerogative Royal contrevenait to the right British basic of the then .
in 1729 , the Governor Richard Phillips had assured the Acadians by wrote of his protection against benchmarks actions .
the Colonel Lawrence has acted without receive of levels and has m?pris? all the laws who protected the Acadians .
even the king not had not the power of sign a Order of d?portation , because the provisions of 1297 of the Britain Charter of England stipulent that the king not is not beyond - above of the bill , therefore still least a simple Lieutenant - Governor Acting .
this colourful has fact confisquer the property of the Acadians , br?ler their houses and their ways , abattre their inject .
he has violating of the families that he has shipboard on of the ships fragiles for be Pioneer as esclaves or condamn?es to the servitude in the colonies U.S. .
memories that this d?portation criminal and these camps of concentration were entam?s when the treaty of 1760 has been signed and extensions until in 1763 .
the labourers judges we minds that they pr?sument that Lawrence has acted honorablement in preparing this treaty of 1760 .
hence the persisted of a bureaucrate powerful whose the duty professional was of protect the Acadians .
of the persisted who shows that he not had no respect or for the treaties or for the day British .
of the decisions as those - there have always been fallacious , that this be in time of peace or of War .
Lawrence has asked of the actions deplores and fallacious , even to the aune of the moral of the rubble century .
of the actions as those - there were inadmissibles in the past and they the are all many today today .
a criminal not should not have the right of create of the laws fundamental in a society civilis?e .
his settled reprehensible the has private of all right legal and moral of sign not important what document referred you if r?f?re today today for guide our civilization modern .
in benchmark our laws on a reference to Lawrence , you if moque of the memory of our basic Canadians and delay , of our martyrs who have fought and paid their blood for that withdrawal the behaviours murderers of people as Lawrence .
they have paid their blood for that of the tyrans of this resources not Sidney not on we and not actually not the bill to the forefront of their fusil .
and hence that to the enter of the new millennium , we going immortaliser officially the heritage of Lawrence in the kit of the court Supreme of the country .
what Blasphemy of the memory of our martyrs and of our ancestors visited , the first Europeans to if establish to the Canada !
we let a terrible heritage to the generations montantes .
some persons say that I in want to the day British .
they if trompent , I in want to the persisted of a psychotique abusive , of a bureaucrate ?coeurant .
I think that the most of the Acadians think as me and that this patient mentally to lier 13 of his own Leader .
we know all that Lawrence not is not the Prime bureaucrate of the history to exorbitant of his authority and to approach to of the actions of sanctioning , of violence and of terrorism .
unfortunately , he not will not the last not more .
I invite the judges to reflect to the implications of their reaching .
if the you accept the validity of the document of 1760 , you suppose that he has ex?cut? his duties general and ordinary with the Authorized of the day and of the people British .
he if obviously that he had of the grounds of d?porter the Acadians and that he has faithfully ob?i to the volont?s of the day .
in grateful the power legal of Lawrence of sign of the documents legal to the behalf of the day , the Court Supreme recognizes the validity of the Order of d?portation .
during of the centuries , the day has balay? this ill?galit? under the carpet .
this is can - be for that that the Order of d?portation not has never been withdrawn and that all the world can in take knowledge .
this is can - be for that that the Acadians have been wording excluded of the treaty of Paris of 1763 , and that this bannissement illegality is always in the books .
the cancellation of the Order could become that the act has been indeed asked .
the d?menti of atrocities has a long history .
he is well possible that he there gave had of the abuse committed by of the bureaucrats British to the during of the long history of the colonisation , but never intentionnellement of this magnitude .
I not believe not that the day gave never agreed the actions cruel corporal to the Acadians .
in fact , I like you read a letter that I have sent to the consul General of the Britain - Britain to Houston , the 18 October 1994 , who demonstrates that this not is not a about that I raises for the first time today today .
I will you read this letter such that I the have written :
I have followed of almost the developments relating to the petition Mr. Warren Perrin regarding the expulsion , in 1755 , of the Acadians of the Nova - Nova .
Mr. . Perrin request persuading model for the great tragedy that have known the Acadians .
this were of the subjects British who had right to the protection of the state .
the treaty of Utrecht of 1713 has yielding the Acadie to the Britain - Britain .
the community acadienne was well established in Nova - Nova since more of a century when this act occasional has been committed .
unfortunately , the government British not has never recognized the ill?galit? of the expulsion research in his behalf by his representatives colonialists , whose the key responsibility was of protect the subjects and the property British .
the time who has past not robs nothing to the serious of this act .
the perp?tration of this act entache angry the history of the democracy of the Britain - Britain , whose this last is if proud .
I am sure that the majority of the Britanniques approuveraient the principle universal that he not there not of deadline of prescription for the crimes against the humanity , particularly when the officers of the state caregiver of the crimes others the subjects of their country ...
in as that Parliamentary , I am aware of the importance of recognize the mistakes of the past of way to this that they not if occur never .
the expulsion of the Acadians has been a act barbare who has took of the risen huge .
That has been a prospect ethnic bashful and criminal ...
the government British has here the opportunity of do to the persons of the world around a statement constructive to the wide Universal .
the prospect ethnic , the genocide and the violence others the citizens of a country are fallacious .
he if can that that particulars of the centuries , but the justice the emportera always .
some say that I not sympathise not opposite to the problems v?cus by the Canadians aboriginal .
to the contrary , the Acadians and the aboriginal have been of the friends soon the beginning of the colonies .
they have lived and worked together in the harmony and many of between them if mariaient the each to the other .
during the d?portation , the history evidence that the aboriginal are came to the lot of the refugees visited in aware of great risks .
I not have no ranc9ur to the place of the only allies of my ancestors .
a great number of aboriginal are also victims of the actions of shy of Lawrence .
in 1756 , Lawrence commanda that of the hostilities ensure avid others the Indian , appearing of the money cash for of the prisoners or of the to scalps to : men , women and children .
they were to the aware of the practices of ?puration ethnic plead by Lawrence against the Acadians .
they have seen of first labour this that Lawrence r?servait to those who osaient the contrarier .
the judges of the Court Supreme not could surely not imagine that a bureaucrate would if little civilized .
in a world civilized , a bureaucrate respectueux of the bill would could accomplish this that the judges wanted read in the document , but he not in was not therefore of Lawrence .
the intention of the judges was commendable , but difficulty typifies .
the judges not must not thinking that the Parliament is F of meet the citizens .
the democracy is a treasury win of high fight and she deserves the fortunate of be implemented .
the judges should thinking to help to the held of take of the decisions who create of the ressentiments , of the disservice and of the factionalism .
they not have not thought to the consequences that their interpretation will in our villages inshore and on the exploitation of our resources limited of the sea and of the land .
the judgment of the Court Supreme has already divided of the Communities who have always lived in the harmony and the respect mutuels .
without pilot , the outraged , the jealousy , the greed and the racism are of the forces angry power to covering .
many of questions are raised but we efficiently little of Questions .
the lawyers must already if frotter the hands of satisfaction .
Lawrence would of what be proud .
the purpose of my intervention today today not is not of me apitoyer on the malheurs of the past .
that would for effect of create a mentality of victim who engendrerait of the feelings of inf?riorit? , of acrimony and of indifference .
of other share , that not sounds not to the mentality of the Acadians , well to the contrary .
you direz can - be that he is time that the Acadians , some the mentionnent , pardonnent .
forgive , yes , this is the something to do .
forget ?
never .
those who politicking are burdened to repeat the mistakes of the past .
the community international starts all fair to discuss of the possible of create a court criminal international permanent for publicize in justice the persons guilty of crimes against the humanity .
I you quote a committee of the speech that the hon. Lloyd Axworthy has sir to the Nations overseeing , the 24 September 99 , who shows clear that we r?p?tons the mistakes of the past , and I quote :
he we must absolutely create of the mechanisms for that the persons who contravenes to the laws international ensure fairest responsible of their actions .
he must Koreas the culture of the impunit? .
the possible of be pursued and of be handful must be a reality for the persons who recourent to the violence .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the time who was Allocation to the Senator Comeau is expired .
the leave is - she granted to the Senator Comeau of continue his intervention ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Comeau :
a genocide cultural not if giving not and the agresseur not is never dignified of honour .
the time not efface not the difficulty or the persisted of Lawrence .
he belongs to a group of monstres that we not must never v?n?rer .
he not must never that his behalf be r?habilit? .
who would the following ?
not expect - they not argue that the rehabilitative of Lawrence opens the door to their own rehabilitative ?
I request therefore to the Court Supreme of until the judgment Marshall in appeals the held of a inquiry in good and properly form on the validity of the signing of Lawrence on someone document that this be .
the bill not demands she not of support the honour and the integrity of the Crown ?
in fact , the judges could if r?f?rer to a petition for the institution of a inquiry , tabled by the Acadians in 1760 .
Notez well the date of the petition !
this inquiry has realized caduque any bill of prescription who could ceased .
the Acadians not deserve - they not of be d?fendus or of be considered as of the guilty of the m?fait who has resulted their d?portation by Lawrence ?
if Lawrence has always acted in his right and with the concludes of the Crown , the history will then written .
words , Lawrence should be sentenced historically , as he the deserves .
some hand carpet of the revers of the labour my request of inquiry in all?guant that this is a symbolisme not relevant of a then rack .
I their Albertan that he not there has not more poised that our commitment to the Crown , to the Gouverneure general and to the robes Red of the judges of our Court Supreme .
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , to the behalf of the Senator Finestone , the debate is adjourned . )
the Adresse in response - Motion seconded to put end to the debate the eighteenth day of sitting - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , pursuant to the notice of the 2 November 99 , move :
that the deliberations to the Order of the day for the resuming of the debate on the motion seconded to the Adopted of a Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne , sir by His Excellency the Gouverneure general before the two Houses of the Parliament , if remission the eighteenth day of sitting where the Order will been debated .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , in trying of understand the why of this motion , I not have could me prevent of thinking that , if the government means limit - to eight , for be precise - the number of days of debate on the speech of the Throne , this is that he has enormous of difficulty to there find Equity for that the honourable senators involved to this debate .
if this not is not the reason , then can - be that keeps - he to someone other consideration .
let how if move our business .
I recognize that few senators have already took share to the debate , and the interventions are limited to 15 minutes each .
four senators could therefore take the speak each day .
to reason of two p.m. by day , this would a maximum of eight senators .
to the pace of two p.m. by day , this that I not have not seen since the beginning of the session , that limited a total of 16 p.m. .
according this scenario , only 32 senators could comment this who must be , of the point of view of the government , the great bill overall of the session .
least of the third of the members of the Senate could therefore participate to the debate on this great vision that the government is supposed have of the Affairs of the Canada .
honourable senators , he we must try of see beyond - beyond of this motion who underlies to limit the debate .
we should always we questions seriously on the control of the debates what that be the question to the study .
how of time the senators of the party defeated impose - they the Helicopter of time , who is a average of limit the debate ?
the hon. John B . Stewart :
the speech are limited adjourn minutes .
not the oubliez not .
the Senator Kinsella :
this limit proves exactly that he must examine the impact of the limit of eight days opportunity for the debate in response to the speech of the Throne .
the Senator Stewart if recall without doubt of the words of the great writer Joseph Joubert , who has said follows :
he worth better debate of a question without the resolve that of the resolve without the have debated .
in these documents , of the senior control of the environment of the Affairs of the Canada unleashing of address this question during the been , during the break Parliamentary , of manner to this that she not raises not a important debate .
I think that our democracy Parliamentary , to the within of a regime bicameral who has resisted to the unequalled of the time and who is in place since 131 years , has been a extraordinary success , what that in say some leaders of parties of the other place .
you has reconciling , with many of success , the freedom in our country .
I delicacies all those who in win to the challenge of find in the world a region , a country or a regime government where the freedom , the democracy and the rights of the human have been many respected .
honourable senators , I believe that we must raising to the resist of limit the debate of someone way that this be , as you attempts of the do now .
by therefore , I move , with the support of the Senator DeWare , that the motion not be not agreed now , but that she be amended by the deleting of the word to eight to and his Alternative by the word to fourteenth to .
his Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion of amendment of the Senator Kinsella ?
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . )
the Code criminal
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading
his Hon. the Speaker :
if no other Senator not means take the speak , are - you loans to adopt the motion of second Reading ?
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
before of continue , honourable senators , I like ask to the Senator Oliver of we inform more to the about of the precedent and of the excuse of courtesy practice .
the Senator can - he we inform more on this that he has determined in drafts the Rules and on the precedents ?
the Senator Oliver :
if the Senate hear to the second Reading , the question will referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Constitutional and legal .
I have a motion who has been indications by the Board and who if based on the precedent established to the Senate .
for answer directly to the question of the Leader Deputy , I could can - be read the motion for that he note by him - even the nature of the precedent established .
I will therefore the do .
by the hon. Senator Oliver , seconded by the hon. Senator Di Nino ,
with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) f ) of the Rules ,
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional to the during of his study of the bill therein S - 17 , Act amend the Code criminal relatively to the harassment criminal and to of other subjects related , during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament , ensure removed to the Committee for the presented study of the faults bill S - 6 .
his Hon. the Speaker :
if no other Senator not means take the speak , then - I move to the question regarding the second Reading ?
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , then - I ask a question ?
I me am absent?e a minute and I like repeating the over .
that is - this that the Senator move to the fair ?
he said that he occasionally notice of a motion to this effect and that he the carrying or are - we already before of the motion ?
the Senator Oliver :
I not have not proposed the motion because that the bill of bill not has not still reached the step of the second Reading .
the Senator Cools :
the Senator Oliver :
he not if is not of the all of a notice .
I have read the motion by d?f?rence for the Senator Hays , who me has asked this that I had in head .
the Senator Cools :
can - be then - I then ask my other question ?
when the Senator plans he of we go officially of this notice ?
the Senator Oliver :
a time that the bill of bill able be read a second time .
the Senator Cools :
this not is not very clear .
the Senator means - he say that he committed propose a motion to this effect after the second Reading ?
the Senator Oliver :
this is exactly .
the Senator Cools :
this would very interesting .
I thank the Senator .
his Hon. the Speaker :
if no other Senator not means take the speak , then - I move to the motion of second Reading ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill is read a second time . )
referred to the Committee - Adopted of the motion of amendment
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a third time ?
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
I move that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
he me seems that the committees will constitu?s of here a or two days , not is - this not ?
the Senator Oliver :
I want amend my motion in adding the words to when obedience Committee will formed , the case afforded to .
his Hon. the Speaker :
is - you of agreed for that the motion be amended ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the hon. Senator Oliver , seconded by the hon. Senator Di Nino , move that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , when obedience Committee will formed , the case afforded .
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion amended ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion amended is agreed . )
Affairs legal and Constitutional
motion Requesting the Authorized of use the documents and evidence collected during of the review of the bill of bill precedent for the study of the bill of bill present - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) f ) of the Rules , I move :
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional to the during of his study of the faults bill S - 17 , Act amend the Code criminal relatively to the harassment criminal and to of other subjects related , during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament , ensure removed to the Committee for the presented study of the faults bill S - 6 .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , if I understand well , this motion can - be debated , not is - this not ?
the Senator Oliver :
yes .
the Senator Cools :
the Senator Oliver could can - be start the debate order that we understand well why he move this motion .
the Senator Oliver :
honourable senators , this motion is proposed before all for do save time and money to the population of the Canada .
many of witnesses have expressed their opinion to the about of a bill of bill who is identical to extend whose we are currently before .
the evidence have been transcrits .
the members of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional have committees all the witnesses who have appeared before them .
to the held of r?inviter all the witnesses to appear , whose some to the fees of the state , for r?entendre their testimony , this who will eat the time of the staff and of the senators , I hope that we going power timetables by referred the evidence who have been transcrits , summarized and widely diffus?s for that we not news not to vigorous the work .
this is the key reason of this motion , honourable senators .
the Senator Cools :
honourable senators , I believe understand that this motion commit to indication to a Committee what do .
the proposal presented some difficulties because that the Senate not knows not the question that the hon. Senator move met given that , if I have well including , the Committee not has never fact report of the bill of bill to the Senate .
by therefore , the Senate not has never been before of the question .
therefore , the hon. Senator we request of give of the guidelines on a about whose we not have not took knowledge .
that me valid a problem and I not know not too how proceed .
if the hon. Senator could we contribute more of elements , I if pleased of the examine .
if this not is not the case , I am prepared to adjourn the debate order that we can have of the time for better we inform on the question .
the Senator Oliver :
honourable senators , the motion not is not a blundering for who that this be .
this is a request submitted to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
I c man know that this procedure has been used to of many occasions to the Senate order of hear of the evidence on ...
the Senator Cools :
he we is difficult of debate of a motion that we not have not before we .
you we the have unwilling , but that we would drafting of in have a copy before we .
I not know not very well of what we talking .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , since the question not seems not do the unanimously , can - be the debate could - he be adjourned and reprinted tomorrow ?
the Senator Oliver :
I am aware of the fact that the Committee not has not still been formed .
my motion not if applies that if the Committee is formed and when he the will .
I not me forward not to this that the question be passed to the Committee soon tomorrow since he not there not still .
however , I hope that she not will not postponed prolong .
I hope that she able be passed to the Committee before that his program not be responsible of measures legislation governmental who will certainly priority , order that few witnesses additional carry be heard if the Committee the Justice necessary .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I not have not seen in the comments of the Senator Cools , the sign that who that this be of this side - side or she - even wish delay unduly the Adopted of this motion .
he me seems that the motion is valid , but the Senator Cools has of the questions and I believe that she has the right that you the addressed in the framework of a debate on the motion .
I believe understand that the Senator Cools like obtain a copy written of the motion .
in as that Leader Deputy of the government , I can say to the hon. Senator Oliver that we not have absolutely not the intention of this side - side of delay unduly the Adopted of the motion .
the Senator Cools :
honourable senators , I if pleased of propose the adjournment of the debate .
I not believe not that a adjournment causerait a behind whatever , because the committees not have not still been constitu?s .
I am concern , because he there has a aspect unusual in this motion and I think that the Senate should the examine of way thorough .
if the hon. Senator Oliver wish speak to new , I not have nothing against , but I am pleased of propose the adjournment of the debate , seconded by the Senator Milne .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I treating these comments as of the questions to the Senator Oliver , order that we can meet the Rules .
the Senator Oliver :
honourable senators , I am all to fact of agreed with the suggestion of the hon. Senator Hays transpired that we adjournment the debate .
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal to the during of his study of the bills of bill S - 10 and S - 12 ( Act providing the self government of the First Nations of the Canada ) during of the 30 - fifth Parliament ensure An to this Committee for the presented study of the bill of bill S - 14 .
the motion has been implementation to the Senators and agreed .
he there has many of precedents to this about .
( on the motion of the Senator Cools , the debate is adjourned . )
the consequences of the Union Monetary European
Authorized to the Committee of the Affairs foreign of Services of the staff
the Senate proceeded to the study of the second report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign ( budget - study regarding the Union Monetary European ) , presented to the Senate the 2 November 99 . - ( Conformity hon. Senator Stewart ) .
the hon. John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , I move :
that the Senate envisaged the second report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign presented to the Senate the 2 November 99 .
his Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
the Senator Stewart :
honourable senators , I like say few words on this report , all in providing my motion on the third report .
you find to the Reading of the Printed of the Journals of the Senate of the 2 November 99 that a amount of 36 100,000 $ had been approved for the business of the Committee of the Affairs foreign on the Union European .
we have spent this amount in around to the during of the last session .
we asking today today that the portion of this budget who not has not been used for our study on the NATO be surgeons for the court of this study to the during of the new session and that a amount Supplementary of 10 100,000 $ be also approved .
in the case of the Prime report , all the funds have been used and we asking the granting of 6 500 $ .
in amount , he rest in the budget of the last session , for the two studies confondues , a balance of 64 400 $ approximately who not have not still been questioned .
his Hon. the Speaker :
if no other Senator not wishes take the speak , I will put the motion to the Senators .
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is adopted , and the report is adopted . )
Affairs foreign
the amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North - Adopted of the report budget of the Committee on the study
the Senate proceeded to the study of the third report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign ( budget - study on the relationship of the Canada with the NATO and the keeping of the peace ) presented to the Senate the 2 November 99 . - ( Conformity hon. Senator Stewart ) .
the hon. John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , I move :
that the Senate adopt the third report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign presented to the Senate the 2 November 99 .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
the strategies designed to answer to the needs of the aboriginal in Equity of housing
inquiry
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the inquiry of the hon. Senator Chalifoux , calling the attention of the Senate on of the strategies designed to answer to the needs of the aboriginal in Equity of housing . - (
the hon. Senator Rompkey , C ) .
his Hon. the Speaker :
regarding the inquiry of the hon. Senator Chalifoux , if human of other not means take the speak , the debate will considered as concluded .
the crisis in the sector agricultural
study of a question of emergency public in under of the section 60 of the Rules
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , we are upon to the end of the Order of the day .
I call the hon. Senator Gustafson .
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , pursuant to the subsection 61 ( 1 ) of the Rules , I move :
that the Senate adjourned now in view of discuss of a question of emergency public , to know the presented crisis of the agriculture .
his Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the hon. Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators , I thank His Hon. the Speaker of we have licences of hold this debate .
I me sense oblig?e of there participate .
I not getting not part of the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry .
I opposite in environment urbain .
I known very little of something to the agriculture , but as I working to the Defence of the poor , I know this that this is that the despair .
this is this that I have observed when I have attended to a meeting with of the farmers and of the women of farmers of the Alberta , of the Manitoba and of the Saskatchewan he there has few weeks .
I have heard speak of the serious crisis that traversait the agriculture , of saisies imminentes and of his effects devastating on the families of farmers .
this nightmare , honourable senators , if product in a country who proceeded for be extend where he fact the better live to the world .
honourable senators , I will now you quote of the evidence took on the exhibited , of the citations of letters that we have showed of women of farmers , of mothers , of parents and of great - parents .
the first letter just of Carol Laing :
I you write for you express my concern of wife of farmer and of mother to comments of the life agricultural .
the life on the firm was pleasant before , but the things have well changed ...
I am girl to my husband , Martin , since 13 years .
the first years to the firm not have not been if bad , but the past years have been d?vastatrices for we .
my husband has should go if find a employment for put of the lifeline on the table and acuity to the needs of the family .
he fact also of the agriculture , of sort that the life is really painful for him .
he has the usual of if rise to 4 p.m. of the morning and of work to the ways until to 2 p.m. of the after - afternoon , for then go office his employment order of defray to the needs of the family .
as he not could if allow of take break , some days he party work day and night in conclusion only a hour or two of sommeil .
some nuits , I entendais pleurer and I knew that this was my husband because that he not could all simply not join the two struggling even in working therefore of Desautels - foot .
he wish simply that his children shifted the same things that the other children .
his health if d?t?riore , he has lost many of negative , he if is repli? on him - even , he essaye all this that he can for try of slipping of the impasse .
I not the in love that more , but this is my husband that I want , not a bomb to delay .
I am in a state d?pressif serious to because of the calls phone and of the harassment .
he has onerous that me also I particulars a employment to the outside and now I must let my children of 1 , 10 and 11 years without mother .
this is very durum and I pleure all the days where I must the let , I me request how they hand and if they have need of me ...
my daughter Amanda has of the problems to the school , she has of the difficulty to if adjust to his environment .
to the school you if moque of she because that she not door not of Gallery habits and that she not has not the same something that the other children .
my son Tyler is followed by a th?rapeute because that he knows that the time are durs and that he if fact of the request for we .
him also claims be patient for stay deposited of we .
very often , the night , he dort to the foot of our reads .
when you him request why , he meets that he means see his father .
Joshua , the b?b? , is small , but he bad the tension who Jr. in the home and him not more not seen not his parents often .
he is with the a or the other .
he pleure when I anxieties work and he essaye of not not me leave of the eyes .
this is terrible for a child of have to daily That .
the life not is not easy to the firm and I hope of all my heart that we going receive of the assistance very soon .
my husband and me , we not we let never , this who not is not widest for our wedding .
my husband habille the b?b? and me the amending to the work before of go to his work .
who is the victim ?
the b?b? that you trimbale of a place to the other in the cold and that he must r?veiller of his sieste .
then , the officers of recovery we harc?lent to the telephone .
account held of the price of the grain , who can if allow of sell ?
this not is not the grandchildren amounts of these sales who enable of resolve the bills ...
we are all difficulty took .
is - this that someone a we listening ?
that sometimes he to our fearlessly family ?
our children suffering .
they not can not participate to the activities piano with the other , because that we not in have not the means .
No and the remembrances are of the talks tristes for the children and their parents if feel always guilty because that they not can nothing their give .
we had a funds for the studies when the things lines well , but we have should use the money for resolve the bills .
now , the children looking to attend the college ...
I not know what their answer .
I in chair still many to say on the life to the firm currently , because I not getting that begin .
in ending , I you supplie of come in assistance to the families of the community agricultural who suffering .
aidez the children who live on of the fearlessly .
I like that see still my children smile , festival and be free of stress .
the life boilers well better if the government newcomers simply the eyes and careful conscience of the fact that he there has of the problems of size and that of the children in suffering also .
following a other committee , honourable senators :
he must of first that I refers that I must tragic the statement of emergency regarding the crisis agricultural ( line 1 - 800 ) for do send this fax since I not have more access to the service of calls distance to because of bills impay?es .
during the crop , we have should do of many calls for obtain of the print and of the upkeep .
for that , we have borrowed a telephone potent .
the 10 October , we have should call the doctor for a emergency .
as he not there has not of doctor in our community , we have should do a interurbain .
we not could even not call a op?ratrice .
my mother is died in July and , to least that they me repeatedly , I not brief even not could communicate with my family or with my father for have of the solace .
we exploitons a firm Bankers since 26 years .
he if is of a firm Joint of 2 500 Tuktoyuktuk and of a business of conditionnement of the seed to value added .
during 17 years , my husband and me have worked to the outside for fund the firm .
as we were to the work all the two , we have should convincing of the assistance to the firm .
all the money that gagnions going to the employee and , when extend - side is party to the across of four years , we have should assume all the work to the firm and to the outside .
he has been difficult of keep the electrical , since a year .
this is of the Saskatchewan Power Corporation that we have received the more regularly of the calls of recovery .
you find well little of compassion when you is forced of ?taler his mis?res before a employee of a great society as similar - there .
as always , I have grown a great potager .
I have past the been and the fall to there work and to d?sherber , I have congel? and developed in divested the products .
my two cong?lateurs are blinkers to ras board of l?gumes and of fruit .
I am proud and satisfied of produce of what esteem my family any a year .
when I have received a letter of the society me saying that the service going be repaired without other notice if the payment not him fractious not , I have took conscience that all my work , all my fruit and l?gumes , risquaient of if losing because that the electrical would coup?e .
I not sometimes not to believe that you can me gentlemen to me pay in a city and to do appeal to a bank of food while that the resources that I have will tracked .
he there has really someone something who wrong when those who produced of what esteem our country if 94 completely terror .
I staircases all this that he we must for the meals , the lunchs , slain , but that if proceeded he when we miss of sugar , of expenditure to p?te , of margarine , of oil ?
that if proceeded he when we miss of lessive , of shampoing , of paper of toilette ( we not achetons more of suffice - mouchoirs ) .
he there has of the things that you not can not produce itself - even .
we conscious of become v?g?tariens , because that we not have not the means of pay the abattoir for do abattre our beef .
following this that wrote a other lady :
each year , we let our community struggle for survive .
each year , she becomes more small .
we not have more the means of drama the church .
our centre community we request more of time and of charitable of food because that the number of members continues of fall .
when I will me tour , I not see never nothing of new , of refreshing , nothing who give hope .
I not see that of the things who if d?t?riorent , if rapetissent or milking .
in our community , the babies are very few .
the farmers have all between 45 and 85 years .
I me request why we in are there .
I see the good mood and the health of my husband constantly implemented to the unequalled .
my children must do all their efforts for reconcile their employment , the studies and the activities piano .
I listening my old mother if complaining because that he me lack of time for go him pay visit .
I am yet always prepared when he if is of serve the go?ter after of the funeral , to the bonspiel and to the mariages .
I am similar who is there when you has need of assistance to because of a operation , of a accident or of a Late .
I can listen my children when they me speak of the inconvenience of the day , even if this is in the referred of the tracteur , when they me Whelans a sandwich .
and particularly , if of the thousands of other persons , all as me , must abandon their exploitation agricultural , where paying - we all ?
there has he enough of jobs for we all ?
the production food will she enough without we ?
the Lands will - they cultiv?es of manner to produce still enough of foods for my grandchildren - children and their children ?
this letter just of Judy .
in following a other :
we have tried of diversify our crops , but all require more of money .
we have also thought to all sell , but who would enough cop for buy of the Lands ?
and if someone a in achetait , after have paid all the Arrangement , he not him limbo not great - something .
have - you noticed how of farmers if are suicid?s these two past years ?
we were proud of be farmers , but we are now reduced to the state of mendiants .
can - be that if we we installions in a country of the third world , the government Canadian jugerait good of we help .
why should - we esteem of other population of the planet and be forced of die of hunger ?
why the government refuses he of understand and not recognizes - he not the magnitude of our needs ?
please hear our supplications before that he not be too later !
honourable senators , I have concluded my Minister .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I am very happy of power discuss and debate of the question .
as this is a real source of concern , I thank the Senator of we give the opportunity of in speak .
I will begin by try of balance a little the debate that we going hear today today .
I congratulate my colleague of the cabinet , the Minister of the Agriculture and of the Agroalimentaire , of his interest and of his commitment to the regard of a approach national Joint to adopt in reaction to the problems financial who confronting certainly the farmers , in particular in the provinces of the Prairies .
I pretend that these problems confronting to some farmers to because - and I me hasten of the add - the sector agricultural remains in the together very strong and robuste .
in General , the income are very almost of the trends to long term and the exports of products agri are to the increase .
( 1610 )
we have fray the year last more of 22 billion of $ of products agricultural and food .
took separately , the challenges that the farmers have had to met to the during of the last year not are not unique .
the during of the products of basic , the costs , the markets international , the economy and the conditions anyway fluctueront always , sometimes to the exhaustion .
this time - side , however , our farmers have should loggerheads of the combinaisons particularly difficult : of the price low for their products and of the costs of production high ; a reduction of the request of the major markets and a increase of the offer World of products key ; of the conditions anyway least that ideal and of the floods or of the s?cheresses .
under the leadership of the government federal , the representatives of the governments and of the farmers have sought together a solution to a problem who is of many more delicate that he not is not brutes in all the country .
the nature and the intensit? of extend - side vary according the regions and the products Agricultural .
find a solution Universal becomes therefore almost a pain - head .
of the measures have however been taken to this regard .
the Minister of the Agriculture has worked in closely cooperation with the provinces and the territories order of improve the program of protection of the income agricultural in which the two levels of government investiront , together , not least of a billion of $ by year .
the government has looked the bases of the reforms to long term who enable of improve , with the time , the ability of the producers of if adapt to the crisis of the income , and who we treaty also to do opposite effectively to the future crises .
in July last , by example , the Minister of the Agriculture and his counterparts of the provinces and territories have began to parse a sure number of problems regarding the development of a program of assistance to more long term in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural .
in the framework of the discussions , you has underlined the need of ensure to this that the program to long term works effectively with the CSRN , the insurance - crop and the programs complementary special to each province who make the system of protection of the income agricultural .
in August and in September , to the opportunity of meetings denies of the country exporters of substantially agricultural , the Minister of the Agriculture has also undertaken a combat order that the system commercial international g?n?re of the income senior for the farmers Canadian .
he if is of the battle coincide for of the rules of the stake fair .
the Minister has presented the Position of negotiating of the Canada for the next meeting of the Organization World of the trade .
strong of the support of the government and of the industry , he has calling the abolition of the grants to the export , a reduction of the measures national of support to the agriculture who have a effect of distorsion commercial and a accessibility increased of the farmers Canadian to more of markets .
these measures are of the elements important of the strategy overall designed to improve the income of the producers .
between time , honourable senators , the government has also developed in implement of the measures for increase the income , for facilitate the access to a insurance - crop more complete , for speed the access to the loans and to the savings and for increase the households to the time timely .
for relieve the impact of a drop of the income , the government of the Canada has machinery , in consultation with the producers and the provinces , the Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural , also called ACRA , program of 1.5 billion of $ .
the government federal provides 60 per of the funding , and the provinces , the 40 per who remain .
that represents 900 million of $ , honourable senators .
he if is of a program of two years to the intention of the farmers who are to the taken with of the small of income criticism .
the government of the Canada has also respected a commitment of the Minister , extend of provide to the farmers of the Payments interim in the framework of the ACRA ; words said , the farmers can have access more quickly to the funds whose they have need , to the held of duty expect that all the calculus ensure facts to the end of 99 , year for which the request is introduced .
agriculture and Agroalimentaire Canada has developed to the point a formula of calculating quick for help the farmers to assessment the payment referred they have right .
honourable senators , we facilitons also the access to the CSRN .
we have substantially assoupli the rules Impediment to the retraits of the accountability of stabilization of the income net and to the Given in these last .
in consequential , 41 100,000 farmers additional have access more quickly to more of funds .
to the end of the months of June , by following of the consultation deposited of the provinces , the Minister has announced of the changes to the CSRN who sells 117 million of $ of more to the clause of the farmers .
the retraits of the CSRN and the Payments to the payments of the ACRA should , according the forecasts , slow of way appr?ciable the drop of the income in the Prairies in General and in Saskatchewan in particular .
the Minister of the Agriculture if expected to this that the full amount of 1.5 billion of dollar grappling to the program ACRA be paid for 1998 and 99 .
in addition , more of 105 100,000 farmers of a across to the other of the country lags of almost 1,2 billion of $ in their accountability of stabilization of the income net , describes they can do of the retraits soon now .
this is to that that they serve .
almost of 26 100,000 farmers the have already fact to live of more of 274 million of $ for power spanning this period difficult .
in Saskatchewan only , to the end of the months of October , someone 13 100,000 producers have puis? in their CSRN and withdrawn more of 119 million of $ .
this are of the amounts 11,800 who can help a great number of families of farmers to if back on foot .
a myriad of between you if education surely account of the serious of the difficulties that familiar the farmers and their family who have been affected by the floods and the drought , and compatissent without doubt to their fate .
grateful the problem , the government of the Canada has worked of together with the province of the Saskatchewan for improve the regime of insurance - crop on which account as of farmers .
for relieve the difficulties of the producers , he has assoupli the rules of the regime of insurance - crop , increased the benefits , heavy the treatment of the requests and facility the access to the regime .
of new measures have been announcements this been , and the farmers of the Saskatchewan have affected until to 25 $ the acre of insurance - crop Supplementary on the neatly not ensemenc?e , in relaxation of the 25 $ the acre already planned for the neatly not ensemenc?e in under of the regime of insurance - crop of basic .
a other supplement of 25 $ the acre has been awarded to the farmers of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba who not have could plant this spring .
this assistance is afford to payments of payment interim in the framework of the program ACRA .
the government federal has also took of the measures order of help the farmers to manage their income in purchased to this that they shifted of the households the more earlier possible after the season of growth .
I quote these figures for try of balance the debate , not not for deny the serious problems faced doing opposite the farmers .
the sector agricultural knows of serious problems , you not can the deny .
conjugu?s , the factors that I have whereas - low price of the products of basic and the fact that the rules not be not playing - have developed this sector of our economy in a situation very difficult .
this is why , even to the time where we talking , of seriously talks have held between the representatives federal and provincial .
not more later that the week last , the Prime Minister if is spoken with the first ministers of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba to this about .
the Minister federal of the Agriculture , Mr. Vanclief , is in touch Standing with his counterparts provincial .
the situation is serious and the government the treating in consequential .
that said , I you request of me forgive this l?ger gap .
he must if remind that the government federal and the provinces if shared the responsibility of the situation agricultural and of the sector agricultural .
the solution to the problem not ahead not in the Adopted of a legislation unilaterally by the government federal .
by example , according of the information recent filter of the province of origin of the Senator Gustafson , the are aside to the support of the agriculture in Saskatchewan by the Administration provincial have known a dropping very draconienne since the beginning of the years 90 .
yesterday , the Auditor provincial of the Saskatchewan , Elsie Strelioff , has announced that the are aside to the programs agricultural by the province of Saskatchewan have decreased of more of 70 per since 1991 - 1992 .
to this then , the are aside by the province to the programs agricultural in Saskatchewan if planet to 1,2 billion of $ .
in 1997 - 1998 , they were of 251 million of $ .
but this Prime Minister can if present in the capital , require that the government of the Canada him loan immediately 1.3 billion of $ and repartir then in exiled to the outrage , without even record the MOU the record of his own government .
this is a problem federal - provincial .
he must be corrected by the two levels of government .
Mr. . Ken Krawetz , door - speak of the Finance of the Opposition official in Saskatchewan , crunch the presented crisis of the income agricultural to the government provincial .
when the Auditor provincial has fact state of the cuts Conducted by the government provincial , he has said :
this is the reason for which our economy agricultural lives the problems that she knows to the hour current .
honourable senators , this who if product to the level of the government provincial of the Saskatchewan fact equally the need of a intervention federal - provincial opposite to this serious situation .
he not if is not of a case where you can seek to learn a advantage partisan .
this problem transpires too of importance for the country .
the challenge to met is too great .
the problem referred doing opposite the farmers of the Prairies not is not imagination ; he is real .
he not has not seen the day yesterday and he not will not resolved tomorrow .
I have Whelan the efforts lending until to now by the government .
I hope have given the insurance that the Minister of the Agriculture and the government continue to appreciation of the interest to the regard of this sector very important and that they consentiront of new efforts in a poised future .
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , the existence of a crisis in the field agricultural not fact no doubt .
he is exceedingly that the agriculture is in crisis since long .
he is sure also that the governments , provincial and federal , speaks of time to other for help the farmers .
the difference , today today , this not is not that we not have not of solution to long term , this is that the government federal not if makes not account that the situation in Saskatchewan and to the Manitoba , in the Prairies in General , not is not the even that elsewhere to the Canada .
I conclusion even that , to my notice , all the facts and all the figures cities by the Senator Boudreau are correct .
I not have no reason of douter of his figures .
she affects the teachers , the doctors , the lawyers , the pompistes and the serveuses .
even without see the figures , all the world if makes well account that the farmers are in a situation extremely serious .
this is a situation of long length linked to the senior and to the lower of the situation international , therefore , to the exports .
however , for a reason or a other , the farmers if 94 this time - side in a situation extremely serious .
a delegation provincial is came to Ottawa for clamour of the assistance .
can - be these people number - they could do more , can - be number - they should do more .
they understand now the serious of the problem and the need of there rectify immediately .
they formerly and guide a response whatever of the government federal .
what has been this response ?
to rentrez home you , we going review the figures still a time . to
he not there had not this showing of work together , this showing of look the Saskatchewan and the Manitoba of a helpful different .
the Senator Cohen has mentioned some letters sent to the parliamentarians .
we efficiently all of the letters d?sesp?r?es .
honourable senators , the problems in Saskatchewan not clauses not only of the questions agricultural international .
they come in great part of the fact that the agriculture and the questions agricultural own to the Saskatchewan are to the lower of the list of priorities of the questions agricultural .
he not there not to this day a policy agricultural national who du account of the variations and of the employees own to the various regions .
we not osons not develop a strategy national .
we we pr?occupons always of the problems own to the farmers of the Quebec and of the Ontario .
we know that the Saskatchewan and the Manitoba have of other problems , without speak of the problems of the producers of fruit of the British - British and of the farmers of the Canada Atlantic .
we imputons all our problems to the situation international .
we can speak of the Elimination of the grants and continue actively a strategy , under the leadership Mr. Marchi , for takes the States - United and the Europe to eliminate their grants .
the fact is that they not the have not fact in the past and that they not the expect not now .
yet , we back without constantly to the even strategy .
we not have nothing fact of new , of novateur or of different .
our leaders federal must grave a strategy , as they the have fact with the group of Cairns he there has a sure number of years .
that we has licences of enable of the gains , and we in removed still the benefits in the structures trade global .
where is the new thinking helm ?
if we not have not of strategy , we basis to the pulled of the Americans and of the Europeans .
nothing in the speech of the government federal not me suggests hope that he has including that he must address the question under a new contempt .
we in have had a example striking with the legislation legislative regarding the Commission Canadian of the Wheat .
we have left to the board of Administration of the Commission Canadian of the Wheat the care of resolve the problems of the farmers Canadian and of the west of the Canada to the held of develop of the programs of support legitimate to the intention of the farmers .
by example , what is our policy of marketing of the grain ?
the problem , this is that the government federal not includes not that he must do evidence of creativity and trying of find of new solutions to the crisis of the agriculture in the Western .
the first ministers provincial not have not always , them not more , including the message .
he has onerous of the election for in r?veiller few - each and their do understand that we not are not to the taken with a problem Standing referred he must find a solution to long term .
we are in full crisis .
the ministers Goodale and Vanclief argue still that he is possible of resolve the problem with the programs existing .
during that they try of prove their point , the farmers doing bankrupt .
he not we remain more that of major companies agricultural .
the government must play Summer - stake .
means - he that the agriculture continues of be a way of life copy who assure the production of the substantially who we are necessary ?
we can continue to manipulate the figures , he rest that the farmers of the Saskatchewan are more many that never to abandon their Lands .
the families peer of the pressure without precedent .
we not basis not in legislation of support the agriculture in Saskatchewan if we continue on this lanc?e .
honourable senators , the time frame is expired .
of the speech have been heard in the two Houses .
all the parties other that extend of the government recognize that the debate has been enough long and that he agreeable to present of take a commitment north .
if the Prime Minister , or his Minister of the Agriculture , had awarded a assistance of emergency to the farmers of the Saskatchewan , who represent three for cent of the population , he their would given a Gallery of recognition .
today today , we comptons the votes .
the Saskatchewan and the Manitoba not discuss not the majority .
he not is not in our interest of criticism this situation to the provinces .
these past will amen?es to assume their share of all program who will led and they have already indicated their agreed .
the government federal seems reject his responsibilities on the other and he not has nothing proposed of positive to this day .
the Leader of the government to the Senate has redit that the government ?tudierait the figures advanced and that he retirements his business in of the committees denies of the representatives of the provinces and of the community agricultural .
the government federal is the only to support that the program in force give of good results .
all the agencies agricultural , the governments provincial and particularly the farmers assessing the contrary .
honourable senators , that will he hurts for that the government come in assistance to those who want continue of ensure the System food and for that the Saskatchewan and the Manitoba continue of do part of the organizes Canadian ?
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I thank the hon. Senator Gustafson of have launched this debate of emergency on this important question .
I thank the senators Spivak , Andreychuk , Gustafson , Tkachuk and Sparrow who , during the spring and the fall , have often asked of the questions to the government on the problems that knows the sector agricultural , particularly in Saskatchewan and to the Manitoba .
honourable senators , he is important of know that , when the government federal working with the provinces , the associations agricultural , the farmers and the producers to the preparedness of a plan , and that the plan not works not , he not must not in do bringing all the blame to the government , this who is too often the case .
however , this not is not a program developed in Bill only by the government federal .
this is a program federal referred the provinces involved .
the provinces were curling of announce this program with the government federal .
they believed that he help the producers agricultural in difficulty in the together of the country .
h?las , that not has not been the case .
when the government federal said that he must examine the criteria , study the program and find of the means of the do operate , we must there see someone something of valid .
when the government federal fact pointed that he not is not the only obviate in because and that he not can propose a program that the other parties who To to the program drafted not applauding not , we not can not act .
this not is not a problem who depends only of the government federal .
since the ACRA is a program to 60 / 40 , that means that the provinces must offset 40 forced of the costs .
the a of the more important problems faced the farmers of the south - west of the Manitoba and of a great part of the Saskatchewan have fact opposite has been the flood .
the Prime Minister Romanow bearer Vanclief , the Minister federal of the Agriculture , in are came to a agreement .
they if are heard on a amount Supplementary of 50 $ by acre of ground not ensemmenc? .
that if is - he past in my province ?
the Prime Minister , before if present to the voters , has decided of not not sign this agreement .
the government federal not could go of the before without the participation of the province since the program of insurance - crop is a program earnings .
this not is not a program federal unilat?ral .
he is important of know exactly why the ACRA not works not .
clear , the criteria intended by all the partners not were not the good .
was - this wanted ?
there has he had a attempt deliberate of put in place a program who not fonctionnerait not ?
not , I not the believe not .
I think that the Senator Andreychuk has reason , he would onerous be particularly sensitive to the problems of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba .
let why the program not has not given the results success .
the senators Spivak and Andreychuk have brought to my attention the fact that the farmers were forced of if contact to a abide that they payaient 400 , 500 or slightly $ for that he remplisse the documented .
clear , this is the first mistake .
if the documented was so eliminated , we gone should provide to the farmers the assistance necessary for the duties .
we not the have not fact .
he is unfortunate that we news miss this opportunity , exactly to the beginning of the break academic , of Services and of ably of young students in accounting for help the farmers to duties these documented .
we not the have not fact .
the Senator Sparrow has fact pointed that , for a sure program , the documented not rentraient even not in the envelopes who were Debates .
this was can - be a program different , but we not have not responded also quickly to this kind of details that we gone should the do .
that if is - he past ?
on a program of 1.5 billion of $ , whose 900 million of the government federal , according my more recent figures , only 236 million have been questioned .
the Senator Gustafson :
the money is also went to the bad persons .
the Senator Carstairs :
where will the rest of the money ?
the Senator Spivak :
to the bad persons .
the Senator Carstairs :
why these farmers in the need not are - they not eligible to these funds ?
how can - we do in sort that they receive this money ?
before that we not begin to speak of new funds , we must we ensure that the farmers of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba receive the money already committed .
I am fully outset that the Minister Vanclief working of Desautels - foot , exactly for find quickly the average of back the rest of this money to the farmers of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba .
we must examine the price .
we must understand that , to nowhere other then of our history , the price not have been also lower , in $ comparable .
we must work in cooperation , and I not talking not only of the provinces and of the government federal .
the Leader of the government to the Senate has underlined the contributions reduced that the government of the Saskatchewan fact to the agriculture .
I am d?sol?e of say that the even situation there to the Manitoba .
all the world has priesthood and decided of spending least for this sector .
honourable senators , of the changes very complex have dismantling the evolution of the agriculture in the west of the Canada .
we not have not still responded as he agreeable to all these changes .
the only way whose we r?ussirons to satisfy to the needs of the farmers of the west of the Canada , this is if the governments federal and provincial , the farmers and the agencies of producers To all .
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I thank His Hon. the Speaker of have licences this debate .
some of between you not the know can - be not , but he has to a then represented a riding agricultural that I known well , soitSte. Rose , to the Manitoba .
I have also well loved the comments filter of the other side of the House , be those of the Senator Carstairs and of the Leader of the government .
I know that their comments are sincere .
I not difference not the fact that of the dirty have been views of share and of other .
we must work together , but he rest a sure number of points to clarification .
to my notice , you not recognizes not enough the uniqueness pressing of the problem .
he not agreeable not of if dealt on the programs in force ; they not have not of importance to the hour current .
the problem is pressing .
why the problem is - he if pressing ?
the situation is well worse that in the years 30 because that the farmers are many more debt .
they have spent of the are incredible to the acquisition of unflinching and of intrants .
now , the Banking are ready to go the hailed in too of guarantee .
the farmers not nonetheless not to pay their taxes .
can - be is - he true that the government of the Saskatchewan has reduced of 70 per his contribution financial to the community agricultural , but the government federal has contributed to the problem .
when I talking of the government federal , I not hear not only the government Liberal .
I want say the government federal , extend who has reduced of 60 per the grants to the transportation in view of fall the deficit .
this drop was too high and is Westray too quickly and she has had of the consequences surviving for the farmers of the Manitoba .
he not there has that the government federal who account a assiette tax enough important for provide now this amount of 1.3 billion of $ .
the governments provincial , and little important the sins who have been committed by the authorities previous , and God knows that they have been many , not have not the assiette tax ongoing for their come in assistance .
the provinces have reduced the deficit and grappling of the money to the health and to the education .
the government federal if expected now to a surplus of 60 billion of $ and more to the during of the next years .
of the money is Use to the Fund of staffing of the scholarships of studies of the millennium and to of other activities who are important , but who not constitute not a crisis high .
as the honourable senators the have said here , a way of life is in considering of away .
any the economy agricultural of the Western is turned under the influence of the integration vertically .
the Cargill and of other businesses if empareront of more in more of hailed agricultural if we maintenons this Cape .
if you not want not that that if Grits , you must act quickly .
sometimes , the better way of act introducing to wishes in the exhibited .
these Canadians very productive are took to the environment of a War economic .
I like that the honourable senators managing that our farmers are productive .
yet , the government not seems not see the enormous disadvantage competitive of the farmers Canadian whose the sector has fray the year last for 26 billion of $ .
this not is not the access to the markets who is in because here , but the price paid for the product .
the access to the markets can help the producers , but when this access is finally assured , he is can - be already too later .
the competition is impossible on the markets of export when the grants paid by the States - United and the Europe are imports to well of the time this that the government of the Canada can confidence .
the message that the government has persistent to the farmers by the through of the first ministers provincial the week last not had nothing of surprisingly .
the government their has fact know that he contain their request of assistance Supplementary .
they are true in July .
Dwain Lingenfelter , the Minister of the Agriculture of the Saskatchewan , states that the figures of the government federal complainants can - be of serious mistakes .
course , his opinion is biased because that he working and lives in Saskatchewan , that he if indications with the farmers and that he studying the problem of almost .
by against , the officials federal have , according the words of Rex girl , the advantage to of a perspective d?form?e by a p?riscope of vision to long distance to .
the Minister Lingenfelter has claimed that the figures federal surestimaient the gains , there including in the case of the Payments in under of the ACRA and of the CSRN .
of a way or of the other , these new estimates indicate a reduction of 60 million of $ of the fees of exploitation in Saskatchewan , this who is appr?ciable .
you not knows not of where stem these figures .
the Minister of the Agriculture of the Manitoba has said that the forecasts federal official for the Saskatchewan and the Manitoba , who have been published in July , invited valid because that very little of things have changed since .
however , the ministers provincial have said that the payment of equalization of 1.3 billion of $ to the chapter of the trade , that they had asked of Ottawa , was well little .
to the across of the account , little important the estimates , he is ind?niable that our farmers have need of assistance currently .
they are fully related to the economy and to the trade to the wide World .
the price that the farmers must confidence for the property and services are constantly in increase .
I getting referring to the engrais , to the herbicides , to the fuel , to the services public , to the assurance and to the upkeep .
to they only , the Estimates if consequences between 60 and 80 $ by acre .
this amount not includes not the taxes , the upkeep to the property and the borrowing for the equipment who can achieve 40 $ by acre .
when the Wheat if vendait 160 $ the tonne and the theory 355 $ the tonne , the farmer earned in end of account someone something .
this year , the price of the Wheat if ranges to 24 per beyond - minimum of the average of the five past years and the price of the theory has descended of a third .
the price of the products has reached the a of the levels the more lower never known , for three reasons .
the first is that this year , all as the year last , the production is far Superior to the average .
the second is that the request has descended in reason of the situation financial in the world , particularly in Asia .
the third is that our major competitors , the States - United and the Union European , guarding their farmers of these conditions trade very tougher in their easier of strong grants .
as have could the see the members of the Committee of the agriculture when they if are prominent in Europe , these grants encouragent the surproduction , who affects a saturation of the market and fact drop the price .
the grants who are awarded elsewhere constitute a problem important for our farmers .
since 1993 , the Canada has reduced of 45 per the assistance that he confer to the agriculture .
the States - United the have reduced of 34 per , and she not has not virtually not falling in the Union European .
the OECD believe to 17 $ U.S. by acre , in average , the assistance granted to all the farmers - not only to the producers of grain and of seeds ol?agineuses .
this assistance is of 45 $ by acre to the States - United and of 362 $ by acre in the Union European .
without measures of support of the income additional outlined to fair payments by the delegation of the Saskatchewan as of the Payments of equalization commercial , the farmers of the Saskatchewan lose collectively approximately 48 million of $ .
you evaluated these losses to per million of $ to the Manitoba .
no sector industrial not could hope stay competitive in of such circumstances .
he must resolve the problem of the grants international .
between - time , the government federal must help more our farmers .
if , our farmers must back their Lands , a to a , to the Banking and to the deadly who can if allow of expect that the government constantly of if ent?ter or that the country of the UE r?duisent the assistance that they overwhelmingly to their farmers .
to the following of the studies and of the trip in Europe of the Committee Senate of the agriculture , we know all that the poules discuss of the toothpicks before that the UE r?duise his assistance .
if the government continues of follow this line of conduct , he becoming a seaway without precedent for our country .
contrary to the governments who not could hardly offer of assistance to the then of the great crisis , the government present has of the money .
he would the means of help the producers food to overcome this period difficult .
honourable senators , I talking particularly of the people of the west of the Canada .
the producers dairy and the producers of volaille if in immunities well in reason of the programs of management of the offer .
some could accused the government federal and of other levels Government of be to the origin of the problem , because they have imposed to the sector agricultural of the cuts higher to 1 billion of $ for resolve the problem of the deficit .
why the government should - he help the farmers to keep their Lands ?
in as that CIBC of the Western , I if tent?e of say that he should the do because that the sector agricultural is the soul of a vast part of our country .
I talking here of the hailed agricultural family .
this way of life is also asset for the families of farmers that the French the is for the Quebecers , that the life in sea or to closest of similar - side the is for the population of the provinces of the Atlantic and that the mountains and Forestry the are for the Columbians - Columbians .
I am tent?e of speak of the value cultural and patrimoniale of the agriculture .
I know however that to the across of the account , he not there will that the figures who compteront for the government - the number of seats , the revenues and the statistics on the exports .
honourable senators , I hope that some of between them not conservation not too to controversy .
a lifeline costs sometimes 2 $ or more .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the Senator Spivak :
I request the leave of continue .
his Hon. the Speaker :
leave is - she granted ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Spivak :
to reason of 30 bushels to the acre , the 160 Tuktoyuktuk of the farmer limited of what do for 342 100,000 $ of lifeline .
the farmers are can - be to the board of the bankrupt , but many of people rely on their grain for enable a joli profit or body a income modest .
a other example important is the grower of barley who loses of the money on all the Tuktoyuktuk .
in produisant 50 bushels to the acre and in the selling to of the brasseries for do of the beer , the grower g?n?re of the revenues tax huge for the governments federal and provincial .
finally , honourable senators , I tabled of the letters of children of our region for that the Senators of those - side be heard .
he must refute this disaster if the you not means not that any the economy agricultural of the Western be turned .
have - I the leave of table these letters ?
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the Senator Spivak request to table of the letters .
want - you that these letters ensure tabled ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , he if keeps this night a debate capital on the difficulties of the industry agricultural of the Canada .
the agriculture step the heart of the economy of my province , the Alberta , and the farmers of the province not have not loved the treatment cites who has been awarded to the first ministers of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba when they have presented their requests legitimate to the government of the Canada .
this insensibilit? of the government federal has fact of many more difficulty that she if is benchers to the time where the government federal engrangeait a extraordinary surplus .
the farmers and their leaders have been disappointed by the lack of leadership of the government , who not has not responded of way satisfactorily to the situation monster in which if find the farmers Canadian .
of the families are in considering of losing their firm , and of the setting must close their doors in Alberta and in Saskatchewan , this who if achieved by of the losses of jobs and a great dying social and economic .
we are witnesses of the agony of any a industry and of his effects devastating on the population of the Western .
going - we say to the population of the Western that the government federal not can nothing do for she then that he must decide what do with his biodegradable surplus budget who not withdrawal of grow .
he is clear that the population of the Western has need of a assistance transitional of the share of the government federal for if adapt .
the industry is incomes struck because that his competitors of the other country norm of grants to the export and of grants internal .
the government must surely hold account of the difficulties of the Prairies in the development of his strategy for the summit to come of the Organization World of the trade , who if incorporated to Miami .
however , the situation current not must not be unabated during the negotiations trade , who could lasted long , because those - side not will of no lot if the industry agricultural is completely careers .
a assistance federal Supplementary is required now .
the hon. Nicholas W . Taylor :
honourable senators , I involved to this debate with a some despairs , because in the field of the agriculture , he is difficult of take exactly the measures who if impose .
we we strictly on the Humane to a free market to the darkest , and we let the exploitation agricultural Bankers not only as a business , but as a home , a way of life and a community , as you the has already underlined .
this is a problem difficult .
he agreeable of if remind that he there has to worthy six years , the organizations agricultural scattering to Ottawa and to Edmonton , where I toeing to the Assembly legislative , for ask to the government of if withdraw of the sector of the agriculture .
I am a member of the Committee of the agriculture and we parcourons the Western , in particular the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan , who have more of Vegetation that the Alberta , my province , and where the problem is probably worse still .
of more , in as that member of the Committee of the agriculture , I have visited the Europe for try of me maintain with the representatives of the Community European .
as the Senator Spivak the has pointed to fair payments , the Europeans not have not really the intention of change .
you authorization in the field of the agriculture to a revolution in someone sort .
the government present , who if find be my government , is forced of Base the assistance to the operators agricultural and to the producers of substantially in service of the product in a form of insurance - income .
that is came all naturally to the Canada because , in as that Canadians , we exportons a if great share of our production food compared to all other country that , if we tentions of firms the price of our products , that he if abhorrent of Wheat , of apples or of what that this be of other , the rest of the country not could not necessitates these Estimates .
therefore , we have found a solution who , we the hope , will quickly agreed by the Europe Western .
you has had a view of that in Germany and in Scandinavie where , to the held of pay the producers of substantially in service of the units of production , that he if abhorrent of a cow , of a pinte of milk or of a bushel of grain , you has established a some form of insurance - income .
we have tried of do understand to the Europeans of the Western that their method revert to pay the producers of substantially in service of the product conduisait to the pollution of their environment .
of the nitrites contaminaient their nappe phr?atique to because of a too great fertilisation and of a invasion for various types of bad herbes , therefore that to the following of changes g?n?tiques for increase the production of grain .
the Europeans modifiaient the grain and the rest .
when you reward the farmers in service of their production , as the Europe of the Western and the States - United the doing , you because many of pity to the environment .
strong judicieusement , the Canada has deliberation for the insurance - income .
in fact , we not should not look the b?b? with the water of the bain .
the insurance - income if effondre in the Prairies .
he not there has not of doubt that our way of excellent the income not works not very well in Saskatchewan and to the Manitoba .
however , he is interesting of see that this regime works well in Alberta .
that me ennuie of the say , because that I groups part of the Opposition and that I have attacked the government to the then , but the members of the government albertain have been among the first to the Canada to propose the idea of ensure the income .
that has very well fonctionn? .
a sure number of accidents geological and physical doing that this province has least of problems that we , in Saskatchewan and to the Manitoba , but she uniting to resolve the problem better that the other provinces .
this is particularly because that she has consulted the producers agricultural , the amenant to thinking to the insurance - income , not for obtain as of $ the acre or as of $ for the Wheat , this who false the market .
if the you is really in favour of the market free , you means draw his system of way to this that the market free works well , this who suppose , well course , the existence of a insurance - income whatever .
to this regard , the government Canadian has fact a not in the good leadership in instaurant the ACRA and the other programs of assistance designed for command the farmers and the producers of have ?pargn? of the money in tomorrow of days more difficult .
in Ontario , the allowance reached approximately 15 100,000 $ by grower and , in the together of the Canada , she is of to little almost 14 100,000 $ by grower .
all system or program based on the income demands that the farmers if roles of their accounting well differently that you not the knowing in the past .
if the government is found of someone something , this is can - be of the lack of sensitivity whose the bureaucrats have fact evidence in instaurant a regime of insurance - income rather that a regime of insurance - products .
that the you if shows sometimes little compassionate , hence who is inexcusable .
the problem has can - be been accomplices by the fact that the government if is shown a little cites in his relations with the farmers in this who respect the regime of insurance - income , but he must see the things of the point of view of the farmers .
their fatalisme and their despair not are not fully the fact of the government , and their sense if timely therefore : to If the government not has not could sell my Wheat the year last and that the Hempline are dominant this year , then that I not cultive that of the grain , that will - I do the year next ? to
you not move not , and can - be the should - you , of the means of change the system for offer to the farmers of the prospects of future in this field .
the only average who seems if offer to them introducing to do competition to the Europeans of the Western and to the Americans , who benefit of grants , and to ask then to the government of fill the difference .
they know that all government simply by say : to It must put a preferment to all That .
you can more you firms on the basic of the during of the products agricultural . to
a sort of revolution if imposes in the production food .
the farmer not knows not to what if in hold ; the Opposition said that the government not knows not the solution , and nothing not me allows of believe that the Opposition , here or to the other place , the knows .
honourable senators , I like that he we be proposed a solution of alternative - that he we be proposed a little more that a simple review objective .
he sometimes sometimes that the first idea be the good .
we have our own Committee of the agriculture .
we could can - be do a effort for the producers of the sector agroalimentaire , their your hope in their allowing of continue their activity in their community and of there do tutorial their children , to the held of we settle of their remind that he we must support the competition of the Americans and of the Europeans and that we miss of money .
this not is not a solution .
of jump say that the protection of the income is as a net of security who would sympathized under the not of a funambule .
if we r?ussissons to put in place a program of protection of the income who , by the action of the free business , allow to the farmers of find their own solutions of alternative , we regards accomplished someone something .
I request urge to the Senate of lead a action in this sense , because this not are not the ideas who we missing .
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , I like before any something thank His Hon. the Speaker of have authorized this debate today today .
this reduction has been op?r?e by a government NDP - breakaway .
this initiative has without doubt licences of intangibles the deficit of the province .
to the seen of the situation current , the government and the senators of in opposite should power encourage the province to mobilizing of the financements complementary , since they if legalities if well with the NDP - discard .
Melenchuk and Romanow are partners in policy , they sit of the even side of the House , and , in this who respect the population of the Saskatchewan , they not doing that a .
and recognize , in this who respect the farmers , they not doing that a .
as the has fact complying the Senator Spivak , this election has incit?M. Romanow , the Prime Minister of the Saskatchewan , to directing Ottawa for in obtain of the assistance for his farmers .
in my quality of Conservative , I then to all the least affirming that Alvin Hamilton , John Diefenbaker , Don Mazankowski , Bill McKnight , Charlie Mayer and Brian Mulroney intensified the time of listen and of understand the Canadians of the Western .
I not can not in say many of the present government federal .
when he was our Prime Minister , Mr. Mulroney careful the time of if dealt on the situation of the agriculture in the Western ; and he succeeds to in cerner the problems , to the contrary of his predecessor immediate , who was of allegiance Liberal and who is , well heard , the present Prime Minister .
to my notice , that the price of the products of basic idle not interest not the Liberal .
by example , when the price of the Oil is Signal and that the Canadians of the Western have began to in withdraw the benefits , the Liberal have developed in place the Program Energy national , a program who intensified to the provinces productrices of Oil of the billion of $ who their belonged for the lifetime to all the rest of the Canada .
by the following , they have paid the price policy and despite the small sursaut of 1993 , he paieront still a time the price policy .
the response of the government to this crisis has been the program ACRA .
this is a response Liberal typical .
this is a program of assistance social .
we not remplissons not of documented .
this not is not therefore that we responding .
yet , this is this that the Liberal if waiting to this that the farmers actually .
in 1996 - 1997 , the income agricultural net national has descended of 55p. per , and has descended still of 35p. per in 1997 - 1998 .
in Saskatchewan and to the Manitoba , the income agricultural is negatively .
the government present not has not of policy agricultural national .
all this that he move when he there has a problem in the Western this are of the solutions interim .
in the areas very peupl?es of the East , he there of the boards of marketing , a program of grants paid directly to the grower by the consumer .
this is exactly this in what introducing a board of marketing .
this is a monopoly .
in the Western , we we d?brouillons all only .
we know all this who if proceeded in Europe .
some country pay until to 8 $ the bushel of Wheat .
the governments European the subventionnent , because they not can not the sell to this price .
they not can even not the brader .
of other country not want not more eliminate their programs of grants that we not want eliminate our boards of marketing .
the reason to that is that , a time that you are habitu?s to the grants and that you grandissez and that you you enrichissez with these grants , he becomes politically impossible of the eliminate .
this is this who sometimes in Europe .
the Americans if are waved in the battle .
they have decided of if fight against the Europeans and they subventionnent now their agriculture .
during this time , the poor farmers of the Western Canadian , not benefiting not of protection on the market , if find in a impasse .
this not is not rare in the Western .
this not is rare nowhere share for the farmers .
when the Lands of a farmer are fertiles and that he seen of other people learn the benefits of his Lands , do of the lifeline , of the whisky , of the beer or flair his products to lower price in the world around and that that not him quoted nothing , the situation is criticism .
this is this who if proceeded today today in the Prairies .
the Senator Taylor has said that he not had not heard the senators of this side - side propose of solutions .
I not know not very well this that we should do , but I know a something : we not can not continue of grow of the products that all the other country subventionnent .
we know our economy and we know that if the Motor are brad?es in Europe , you not able not do of profit on the Motor in America of the North .
gold , this is this that doing these country .
they bradent their Wheat .
the Canada is a country exporter .
he not there has not enough of people to the country for eat all this that we produisons .
we must the protect because that they know how exploit these Lands .
we not can the let if appauvrir and leave their Lands .
we must put on foot a program national who would based not not on the assistance social , but rather on a strategy agricultural industrial providing that these Lands should serve to other something .
honourable senators , we must also include a period of transition .
I believe that he should include a period of transition of ten years to the during of which the farmer answering a some amount by acre of land .
he would then considerations to adopt a culture effective since he limited then more of money .
however , he not should not reduce the payment to the acre awarded to a farmer who uniting .
reselling - we rather that he nervous for that he be in legislation of abandon him - even the grant .
this is this that we must do .
we not can not ask to the Europeans of abandon to the grants .
forget that .
we know all this who sometimes with the assistance social .
the people becoming of more in more d?pendants and they deny of if in slipping .
this is this who sometimes .
the Americans have decided of act words .
in as that Conservative , I believe that the life deals transpires a great importance for a country .
I not like not that all the Canadians live in of the cities .
the regions rural constitute a kind of found .
good number of people rightly that he is well of power go in the nature or of if tour in a canoeing where he not there has human .
you if groups in someone sort only .
if you are already achievement in the regions rural of the Saskatchewan , of the Alberta , of the Quebec or of the Ontario , you know exactly this that I want say .
the regions rural are different and they are important .
however , they must also be classes of the point of view economic .
the population of the regions rural are intelligents .
for live and survive in campaign , he must be gracious and work strong .
giving a little of hope to the farmers .
damning of say that they are in difficulty and that he there a program of assistance social .
that not help in nothing .
these people not want not of the assistance social .
they not in have never wanted and not in want not more now .
however , I will you say a something .
if we the resource d?pendants of the assistance social , they not able more if in move .
Mr. . Romanow is came here .
I not think not have been never of agreed with Roy Romanow , but this time - side , I him give reason of be came .
the Prime Minister of the Manitoba the accompagnait therefore that of the leaders of the Opposition and of the delegations of farmers .
he not has not been well treaty .
the government not has not awarded a priority very high to their concerns .
we have listened the speech that the Minister of the Finance has fact yesterday ; he not has not a only time mentioned the agriculture , and this , a week after their visit .
Oh ! yes , this is important , but in the speech of the Minister of the Finance , this not is not also important that that .
he said : to says have 90 billion of $ to spending , I vomit of forward .
can - be will - I you give a small reduction of taxes and we going repay a little the debt . to
honourable senators , the ACRA is difficulty designed .
we know that this program not works not ; not attempting therefore not of drama someone something who not changed not .
d?barrassons - we - in and removed the by someone something who works .
this program was supposed operate to the spring .
we are now in fall .
the farmers of the Saskatchewan must very soon if prepare for the spring .
the government has developed this program on foot to the spring , the farmers have fact their request and they waiting always the money .
this not is not as that that you reacts to a emergency .
even a time that this debate will took end , I hope that we able the continue under a form or a other until to this that we r?ussissions to find a solution able of solve to the least few - each of the problems .
we can probably work more together in our institution that in not important what other institution policy to the Canada because that we are here for long , the health progressive .
we , of this side - side of the Senate , know this that the you must do , and this that the you fact currently not relative not .
we request our colleagues of in opposite to examine carefully this that fact their government .
we you prions of ask to your Prime Minister of visit the provinces of the Prairies and of take the time of listen this that the farmers and the representatives of the municipalities and of the governments provincial have to say , because that they are more almost of the population .
they if concern of their communities .
they will can - be then completely of agreed with we for say that he there has a situation of emergency in the west of the Canada and that he must there rectify .
the hon. Herbert O . Sparrow :
honourable senators , I like of first thank and even congratulate the senators who sit to the Committee of the agriculture to comments of the Position that they have advanced to the regard of the world agricultural to the during of the year last , and certainly before .
the senators Spivak , Andreychuk , Gustafson , Hays and Fairbairn have all contributed of way important to do understand to the government and to all the Canadians the crisis that facing the industry agricultural to the Canada , and more particularly in Saskatchewan , to the Manitoba and in Alberta .
let - me of the congratulate , because he not there will can - be not many of other choirs in my intervention .
I not know not too this who if proceeded when we granted of the debates of emergency .
I know to who the message is advocates , but the debate not in remains not least important .
according a dicton , he not must not try of drama this who relative well .
this system not relative not of the all .
enough , this is enough .
we have heard speak of plans for do follows or that and of amendment of documented .
nothing not if proceeded , during that the farmers if acheminent toward the bankrupt .
when the problem has surgi , in November of the year last , a program has been proposed .
the Senator Carstairs said that all the parties if are heard and that he there has had cooperation with the organizations agricultural and the governments .
he there has indeed had of the consultation .
he seemed heard that the funds of the program ACRA would paid very earlier in the new year .
that not if is not product .
the Senator Carstairs said that all the world has coop?r? .
this is false .
I have attended to of the meetings with the representatives of the Department of the Agriculture , whose the Minister .
I believe that the program , such that he has been proposed , was excellent and would well market .
when he has finally been realized public , with the documented of the ACRA , he is became obvious that the program not marcherait not .
he is all also obvious today today that he not has not market and that he not marchera not .
when she has seen how the system if apply to the level of the exploitation and where boilers the money , she has withdrawn his support .
not a only organization agricultural of the Western - I not floor say this who if proceeded in the East - not envisaged the program ACRA .
the governments provincial not have not given their agreed .
the money party be paid to the beginning of the year .
you has criticized to the governments provincial of not not participate .
you has said that the Saskatchewan contain of sign the agreed , but the province has d?bloqu? his 200 million of $ and the has developed in contingency soon January and February 99 . contemporaries not has received the agreed for signing that in June .
that knowing the Department federal ?
why the government federal careful - he as of time to send a agreed ?
the money of the government of the Saskatchewan , be 200 million of $ , must be paid on a basic of sharing of the costs .
if he not the is not , this is that the money of the government federal not is not there .
the time is crucial for the community agricultural .
you can well speak of programs to long term .
this not was not the months last or he there has six months .
tackling - we to the crisis .
cautions the money in the hands of the farmers .
you talking of funds modified .
yes , he must of the funds modified , but you can save well of the fearlessly family in bounds of the funds who have already been incurred .
those who not are not to the aware of the problems looking often what will the length of the program .
they want know if this is a assistance in a only time or if she remain always in place .
he is possible that she be always necessary .
if we not can provide the necessary , we must the say frankly to the farmers Canadian and the avertir that he not there will more no grant .
that they if gain dignement .
giving - their the money and say - their that this is ran , but let - the if lead toward of other activities in the community with dignity , without supplier or qu?ter , without die of hunger , without thinking to the suicide .
all that if product currently .
he must look the things in opposite .
we not asking not during how of time the benefits of Age will paid .
we not effectively not to the persons seniors of the benefits of Age during a year or two for then the their withdraw .
however , in the case of the environment agricultural , reach extremely important of our society , we we asking if he cite still of the money the year next .
want - we a industry agricultural to the Canada ?
he must we decide .
we are on the point of abandon to all these systems on the scene international .
all the sectors affected too , them also , very soon of the problems .
that not fact no doubt .
to this time - there , we not basis more in legislation of acuity to our needs food .
this is the aspect crucial of the problem .
if we abandonnons the farmers of the Western , if we let the market international impose his rules , he if in find for say that we should also abandon the farmers of the Quebec and those of the Ontario .
then , he not we remain more that to import the substantially food .
during of the years , I have travelled the country for speak of the conservation of the soil , of the disappearing of the firm Bankers in reason of the erosion and of the destruction of the enjoyment arable .
I the have fact , because that , in as that nation , we must power acuity to our needs food .
this is the objective that intended the community European .
she underscored for power acuity to his needs .
the Canada states that he can always import of the products , but there not is not the solution .
we must be in legislation of acuity to our needs food .
I like that the hon. Senator Carstairs be here .
she has mentioned to what point he is difficult of duties the documented of the ACRA .
she had reason .
he there has 45 or 47 pages of instructions who Senate how duties a accompany of seven pages .
the Senator Carstairs has said that we gone should convincing of the students for help the farmers to duties their documented .
the Department of the Agriculture has provided of the assistance ; of the officials are achievement in the west of the Canada for explain how duties the documented of the ACRA .
why not have - they not simply designed a accompany who not is not varied ?
not , they have favourite spending of the thousands of $ for explain this that he needed do of these 47 pages .
these documented not have not been forwarded before March or April and they not have not been diffus?s widely .
the officials of the Department of the Agriculture me have said that I brief obtain the accompany on Internet .
not are - they never achievement visit in Saskatchewan the hailed agricultural in difficulty ?
how were - we then on Internet ?
I not have not could obtain of accompany .
finally , the office of the Department of the Agriculture of my community has received two documented in May .
you in has fact of the photocopies who have been implemented to our clause .
we discussing currently of this who not go not rond in the sector agricultural .
you we said that the farmers inefficient not have not their place .
the Minister said that if someone a not sometimes not to gain his life in this sector , he should in slipping .
this is there a option , but our farmers not are not inefficient .
we we are d?barrass?s of those who were inefficient he there has 20 or 30 years .
I have already said that and I the repeat still today today .
as the Senator Spivak the knows , if we continue of we mothballing of those that we accurate inefficient , he not remain that a only farmer .
we examine then that he is him also inefficient and we we d?barrasserons of him .
of major companies of exploitation agricultural will then in place , they will fully filtered , and the farmers discuss all lost .
in Saskatchewan , if nothing not change , in 20 years , he remain two major cities , those of Saskatoon and of Regina .
he not remain more of communities rural .
of the small cities have already Osteoporo and , if nothing not change , he not in remain more no .
what kind of province , what kind of country someone that if produce ?
this are there the problems that we must examine .
of jump want that the Prime Minister if non in Saskatchewan for see of visu the situation .
he not has not to the do .
all sorts of people the have already fact .
this not will however not sufficient .
the message just surely of elsewhere .
today today , the Leader of the government to the Senate not has unceasingly of move this message .
I regret that he not be more here ; he not includes can - be not the situation .
he there has a problem , and you if there attack in pr?conisant the sacrifices .
you not constantly of say : to candidates will do follows , you will do that . to
in appeals , the problem perdure .
you talking of the cooperation of the provinces .
the money that the provinces have agreed of confidence to the farmers is there - he enough of the distribute .
the Minister of the Agriculture not touch not of say that he there has many of money in the CSRN .
this is a program referred contribute as the government federal that the farmers .
according the data of the months of August , who are the past that we news on the CSRN , 22 100,000 farmers on 58 100,000 lags of least of 2 8,700 $ in this account .
that not prevent not the Minister of say that he there has many of money in the CSRN .
for those who are to the board of the crumbling , he not there not of money .
he not there has nothing for them .
to the 20 October , 6 800 farmers had obtained a payment in the framework of the program ACRA .
however , they not are not those whose we we Ordinances .
we we Ordinances des30 100,000 farmers who will ruin?s .
I using this figure since a year now .
or well we goes completely these 30 100,000 farmers , or well we goes the young farmers who should take the falls of the more old .
I urge the Leader of the government to the Senate to bringing this message to the government .
the program that the organizations agricultural formerly not is not extend who has been developed in implement .
this is why they not the applauding not .
you we said that few ajustements there will Regional .
he is easy of amend the program .
we could ask simply that he be eliminated and replaced by a new .
this would well , except that he should expect still a year .
I not want not that .
modifions the program in place and versons the money to the farmers .
he there has a billion of $ .
versons - the to the farmers .
we we inqui?terons after that of find of the funds modified if he in must .
help the farmers to the taken with of the difficulties .
the hon. Ron Ghitter :
honourable senators , all of first , I wish to thank His Hon. the Speaker of have licences the held of our debate .
this is a debate important .
I congratulate all those who have took the speak until to now .
not knowing nothing of the life in a exploitation agricultural , I have many learned this after - afternoon .
the intervention of the Senator Sparrow has been excellent .
he and of other also have said many of the things that I wanted say .
I rise this night to payments of citadin , but of Albertan , therefore , someone a for who the debate takes a non a little different .
as the has said the Senator Andreychuk , he must understand that this who is good for the Ontario not is not necessarily good for the Alberta or the Saskatchewan . Changes contexts economic and demographics are different .
the Communities are different .
the closest of the markets not is not the even not more in these provinces .
by therefore , account held of the figures heard today today , you not can not say that this who is good for the Canada will necessarily vibrer a chord sensitive in Saskatchewan or to the Manitoba , where they not have not the resources , the population , the force economic or the power of the Alberta when he if is of come in assistance to the farmers .
you can do say to little almost this that the you means to the figures .
I not have not the intention of me start in of the quibbling of figures .
we have all seen these figures .
if we want do implement useful , he must of first answer to few questions fundamental .
all the world here respond : to Welfare course that yes ! to
however , he there has of the regions to the Canada , in particular in Alberta , who seem indication that the then of the firm Bankers hook to his end .
he is easy of romancer the firm Bankers .
he is easy of speak of the point of view of the community .
the senators Tkachuk , Spivak and Sparrow have spoke of the importance of the firm Bankers for our communities .
they have spoke of the sense that she creates home the people .
they have spoke of the sense of closest and of affiliation to the community that you not has not in city .
they have spoke of the contribution if important of the firm Bankers to the manipulation and to the culture of our country .
the Senator Spivak has said that the firm Bankers was to the Alberta and to the Prairies this that the language can represent for the Quebec , this that the Forestry represent for the British - British and this that the fisheries represent for the Canadians of the Atlantic .
his comparaisons are all to fact fair .
she will right to the heart of the existence and of the perp?tuation of all this who we important , to we who critical of the Prairies .
when someone a request if the firm Bankers has still his place to grant era of the globalization , of the major companies and of the oriented , I say yes .
the firm Bankers has still a place very important .
she fact part integral of the fabric social of our country .
she is if important that we not can not the let away and losing therefore someone something of if profoundly enracin? in our society .
if we recognize the importance of ensure the survival of the communities rural of our country , little important this that the firm Bankers can represent for various persons , she has need of a something .
as any business , that this be in the sector of the fisheries or in the sector p?trolier and Chronicle , he must a something for survive in Affairs .
all the people of Affairs you say that this something , this is the stability .
if a business not has not of stability , of predictability or a sense of the planning who him give a idea of this who if happens the year next , she will always in difficulty .
she will always in the uncertainty and not in simply never of go ask of the assistance to the bank .
without stability , you seems always in considering of mendier .
I believe that , since all the years that I am in policy , the farmers not have never b?n?fici? of no stability .
as the has said the Senator Taylor , he there has had in Alberta of the programs who have fonctionn? .
he there has had a basic assured and a net of security faced the farmers have could approach for loggerheads the bad time and all the other things with expelling they must tragic .
however , they not have never had the stability who their would licences of planned and of continue to we provide the products who are so important and asset for we .
of the stakeholders have spoke today today of revisiter the question constitutional .
the Leader of the government to the Senate has said that the provinces must do someone something .
we have heard that so often .
you we said that this is their fault .
I could r?citer to the senators a list that of the members provincial of the Manitoba have unwilling when they have presented their representations to the Committee Standing of the agriculture and of the agroalimentaire of the House of the Commons .
he if is of two pages of programs whose the government federal if is withdrawn and of cuts made to of the programs dealing the agriculture , and I hear say today today that the provinces gain of the funds .
the poor small province of the Saskatchewan withdrew of the money of the assistance to the farmers .
the government of the Saskatchewan not has not the means of provide of the assistance to the farmers , then the government federal said that the Saskatchewan is supposed contributing 40 per of the program of assistance and that as she not the has not fact , the government federal not has not to do what that this be .
this is of the d?robade .
this is unacceptable .
he is unacceptable that the leaders political , provincial or federal , say that that not is not their responsibility .
this is the responsibility of all the world .
while that we garbage a small of $ here and there , the life agricultural in this country will in if amenuisant and the crisis continues .
of more in more of hailed are saisies , of more in more of hailed unskilled and of more in more of young if in hand .
all the things that we have heard today today are hands and ingenuity .
they if produced in our country .
the people speak vaguement of the problem , they not if there attack not really .
they not want not if start in a War of the figures .
that not Technicolor nothing .
we have need of a government who strictly beyond - before of the farmers and their move a plan to long term for their ensure the stability during that he working with the provinces .
honourable senators , this not is not new .
that not date not of yesterday .
in the years 70 , I groups part of the government albertain and this was the even kind of discussions , the even sense .
of way general , you completely for responsible the government federal or such human .
and in the intervalle , he there has of least in least of farmers .
the problems have been exacerb?s , and we hence quagmire in a crisis .
I believe that we we dealing in a situation very serious to the Canada rural , particularly in the Prairies .
he not enough more that the Prime Minister refer the first ministers home them in their saying : to Nobody you inqui?tez not , a other Committee fixera the figures . to
he is can - be too later .
he should of emergency adopt of the measures ponctuelles , the time that of the plans to long term grab the day .
unfortunately , nothing not is fact in this sense .
you if refer the passing and you if book to a battle of figures .
human not just contribute of the solutions for ensure the stability of this industry .
if this is this that he must do , going of the before with that .
yesterday , Mr. Martin not has even not Whelan the situation agricultural when he spoke of the forecasts financial and of this that he probably of do with the itself - saying surplus .
that in is - he in their case ?
why not talking - we not of agriculture ?
why rejetons - we always the responsibility on someone a of other and not do - we nothing for correct the situation ?
honourable senators , he is time of favouring a climate of stability .
the farmers the deserve .
if we believe really to the importance of the community deals , we must then do someone something for him come in assistance .
he is time of stop of speak .
he is time of begin to do evidence of leadership .
he is time of offer a some stability to the farmers of the Canada .
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators I thank also the Speaker of have agreed that he if 13 there of a about if pr?tant to a debate of emergency and I thank my friend the Senator Gustafson of have seen to this that he be spoken .
this not is not a debate to the about of the statistics .
this is a debate regarding the difficulties experienced doing opposite today today the special , the families and the children and Authorize on the prospects of future .
he there of the prospects of future on the plans of the stability in the sector agricultural and of the opportunities on the markets world .
I have listened all the speakers .
all have Whelan with more or least of force the problem and the factors who we Meetings here this after - afternoon for speak of the farmers .
I have in particular listened with fabric the intervention of the Senator Gustafson .
this is far of be the first time that I listening the Senator Gustafson .
I have the privilege of sit to the Committee Senate of the agriculture , that he behind with many of accuracy and of heart .
for those of between you who not understand not the operating Economy of the Senate , this is a place where of the people partageant of the points of view political different can if meet and if do of the friends that they garderont long .
these persons can also share and shared indeed of deep concerns regarding of the problems who disquieting the life and the well - be of the citizens , what that be the place where they live to the country .
this is without doubt there a of the points strong the least well known of the Senate of the Canada .
honourable senators , no Canadian of the west of the Canada , particularly those of the major sectors agricultural of this region , not can ignore the pain and the ins?curit? raised by the people of the communities and of the families agricultural and of the small cities rural and of all those who trying of lead of the Affairs in these places by time durs , who must necessitates the reprehensibly of temp?rature , the floods , the drought , the diseases and the pressure of the trade international who diminishing the dropping of the price of the best products of the world opposite to the granting massive of grants in of other country .
the Committee of the agriculture has heard of the evidence and of the stories in originating of all the sectors of this industry then that he worked to the preparedness of a report to the intention of the government on the messages that the Canada should convey to the next negotiations on the trade outside who if news to Miami .
our report , entitled : to Position seaway to follow :
the priorities for the agriculture Canadian and the NRTEE of the millennium to , referme of important recommendations in view of the next negotiations who must be businesses more later to the during of the months .
but the more important is that he has been given to each of between we of hear speak of the difficulties and of the opportunities of the sector , when we were on the ground , in the Western Canadian , - not not in the wards of meeting of the committees here , to Ottawa , but in our own communities , in our own provinces .
we have listened the population .
we have toast right in the eyes of those who little of serious difficulties in reason of circumstances that they not conglomerates absolutely not .
to the during of the months intervening , I have visited all the provinces of the Western .
I me am entretenue with a great number of operators agricultural - sometimes in company of colleagues , sometimes only , including in the south - west of the Alberta whose I am outcome .
a something is some , and this is that in Saskatchewan , he has length been question of the damage occur by the gushed on the Lands agricultural of the south - is of the province , and of the south - west of the Manitoba also .
I have spoke to of the farmers who if there are reprinted to two time for ensemencer their Lands , for see the pots ruiner their efforts .
these persons have of very serious difficulties financial .
the crop will inexistante , and the jobs are introuvables .
some senators well fascism in the comfort douillet of this chamber not if education not account that the fact of stature a land , that similar - side Grits or not , removes these farmers of the right of accordance the allowances of the well - be social ; these people if looking how they hand do for acuity to the needs of their family .
of the senators of all the stripes have met the week last the members of delegations of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba , attack to Ottawa directing of the financements transitoires for help the farmers to spanning the next years to the across prompted he is to hope that , during of the negotiations trade , the Senators of the reason pr?vaudra , of even that the good showing and the fabric .
they we have said to what point the Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural not funds not the results success by the government federal and by his partners of the governments provincial .
I like identify some of the persons who are attack here the week last .
they not represent that a part of the delegation .
we have heard Leon Lueke , of the Association of the producers of porc of the Saskatchewan ; Penitentiary Wagner , of the Pro - West Rally Group ; Noreen Johns , a wife passionn?e and profoundly concern , of the Saskatchewan Women' St. Agricultural Network ; Don Dewar , of the Keystone Agricultural Producers ; Goerge Groeneveld , of Agricore ; Elsie Motherall , of the Association of the municipalities of the Manitoba , who rest usually to the gap of this kind of issues , but as the small cities little of the difficulties , the major cities come to the pecuniary .
we have spoke to Clay Serby , Minister of the Affairs municipal , of the Preservation and of the fellow of the Saskatchewan ; to Duane Lingenfelter , deputy - Prime Minister and Minister of the Agriculture ; and to Ms Donna Harpauer , MP of the Saskatchewan Party .
of the Manitoba , we have spoke to the Leader of the Party Liberal , Jon Gerrard , who is a old friend since the then where he sitting as member to the House of the Commons .
he is clear that we , who must speak to the behalf of this region here , not should not put the focus only on the War of figures whose have fact the subject the discussions who if are fairest the week last .
we not must not we let distract of this who is really important , this is - to - say all put in Bill for help the farmers in difficulty .
honourable senators , I believe that we regards a response , and that we the regards very soon , this who we allow of amend the programs in force , of d?bloquer of the funds , of hold account of the point of view of the farmers who have said that the amount of 900 100,000 $ was appreciate , but that he not plaques not enough soon and that he not was not assigned of the way the more useful .
we must respond to that , honourable senators , and I am some that we going the do .
I think that of the ajustements , of the changes and of the commitments will necessary for that the programs working .
you if is many asked today today if someone a if concern of the problem .
we must we ask if the country is became cites to his past and to his present to the point of ignore this who if proceeded , not in the sector in view , not to the television all the night , not in the great centres urban , but in some of the more major rivers of our country that we not ?changerions for nothing to the world .
hence why we not can never abandon our farmers .
yes , we we sentons really responsible .
in the world of today today , we know that the agriculture is a of the industries the more fragiles and that he there has emergency .
I the have said , the Minister of the Agriculture will contribute of the changes very quickly because , honourable senators , we not want not that disparaisse this way of life who has been described today today .
we want the preserve .
we want multiplying the opportunities for the farmers , not for the deadly .
we want strengthen the links between the communities rural because they are the soul of our regions and of our country .
I just of a wonderful small city who if Order teethed .
I the love many , but I love also the small cities who are Diaspora in the areas rural who the around and whose she hook his force - of the cities as Coaldale , Picture Butte , Stirling , Taber , Warner , Raymond , Magrath , Cardston , Stand Off , in the contingency of the Gens - Edward - Sang , and Grandfather MacLeod , where so of things recall the history of the RCMP , and in the mountains , beyond - beyond of the cols , Pincher Creek , and Brocket in the contingency of the Short .
this are the Diaspora of the Oath agricultural on this land whose I am outcome and where my great - mother and my great - father were pioneers .
he worth the worthy of if stop sometimes for thinking to this that was the Canada there - lower to the beginning of the century .
he not there had not of buildings or of setting .
he there had of the fearlessly and of the people boldest came by grandchildren groups of all the across of the world .
the family of my mother is came of the crat?re of poussi?re of the Lakeside , looking to improve his fate , and if is Anzac , Senator Gustafson , almost of North Racicot , in Saskatchewan , where my mother is born .
this is the basic of our country .
today today , be a century more later , we can communicate , through to the Technology and to the technology , but , to the extension , despite the disappear , the population of these small cities boat really to see their similar , to their speak and to the listen .
this is to his risks and asymmetry that the giving extend who the represents to the within of a Assembly legislative , where that this be to the Canada .
in the oubliant , you risk of Koreas the unity of our country .
the persons boat to be related .
little important the glory that amending the Technology , she not Vo hardly the link between the persons .
as I the have said to the beginning , honourable senators , the debate of this night door really on the persons .
despite the scepticisme of some of my opposite - to - opposite and of my colleagues , I believe firmly that the persons must have the first consideration and the priority of the government and of the Prime Minister .
the government and the Prime Minister jurisdictions .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , before that we not agreement the hon. Senator Gustafson , I want clarify that the Rules not said nothing of this who if proceeded to 18 p.m. in the framework of a debate of emergency .
what that he in be , I have felt that the s?nat otherwise that I not me concern not of the six and I not have therefore not interrompu the hon. Senator Fairbairn .
I suppose that you souhaitez that I not me concern not of the hour ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , I happy short .
I want all of first thank His Hon. of have licences the held of this debate .
I think that this is a decision admirable .
I want also thank the senators of the two sides .
this is a day where I am proud of the Senate because I think that we start to accomplish the work who should be fact in this chamber .
as of the stakeholders of the two sides the have indicated , our community agricultural is Spring to a very serious problem .
he there has had of the misunderstandings , but the members of the Committee of the agriculture know , and I orators until there , that the government not was not totally to blame in the Presented of the program ACRA .
except mistake , this is to the Federation of the agriculture that you must , in fact , this program .
you the has developed in place on the time for do opposite to the problem in the sector of the porc .
the productions if vendaient to Torquay , in Saskatchewan , 10 $ Room .
however , that not has not fonctionn? for the rest of the Canada and for the c?r?aliers .
this program not has absolutely not fonctionn? and must therefore be changed .
honourable senators , the Saskatchewan not has not the assiette tax ongoing for share the billing in a form of 40 - 60 .
I will be Summer .
the Alberta has the money necessary and can meet this criterion .
she is pleased of the do and of pay more .
the farmers Albertans headache more , but that sometimes he then in Saskatchewan ?
of more , he has been question of the neglect of the government provincial .
he the has been .
he has balanced his budget to the backs of the farmers .
he has used our Payments to the payments of the program RARB .
the Alberta has affected 58 100,000 $ by farmer to the during of the last year where the Payments to the payments of the RARB have been paid , the Manitoba 43 100,000 $ and for my share , I have received a billing of 320 $ for my exploitation agricultural .
anyone said that that not will not of consequences has wrong .
we talking currently of mistakes avid by the past , and we not can not the let if repeat .
the agriculture is a industry important for the Canada .
my great - father if is established in Saskatchewan in 1905 .
they not have all simply not the money for the pay .
we must take some decisions and , as the has said the Senator Sparrow , they must be taken quickly , because that the period of ensemencement happen soon .
when you if indications with of the farmers and of the groups agricultural , that say - they ?
they looking this that they should do now .
the question is of know how of farmers able ensemencer .
the situation is very d?moralisante .
that per to worthy the fuel necessary for exp?dier the crop .
this scene if repeat to the broadens .
the Hempline of some farmers are gel?es .
they seniors 88 cents for of the Wheat gel? .
of the farmers receive 2,05 $ for a bushel of Wheat durum , then that their counterparts U.S. are amorphous of in obtain 5,50 $ the bushel .
how hand - they survive ?
not , they not the expect not .
a of the great problems who exist currently in the world , this is that the country who have need of the substantially food not have not of money .
to a then , the Canada had of the ships blinkers of Wheat who quittaient Vancouver for if pay in Russia , then that they not had even never been impossible .
they were simply forwarded there - lower , and the Russes achetaient this Wheat .
today today , the Russia not has more a dime .
she not has not of money for buy of the Wheat .
the Minister of the Agriculture of the Russia has appeared before the Committee Senate and we the has said outright .
I could appoint of other country in the even situation .
the problem is world .
I hope that you will evidence of sense common to the meetings to Miami , who d?buteront the 29 November and if occupied until to the 4 December , for trying of resolve this problem world .
the more important , this is that the government and the Parliament of the Canada if roles of this problem world very important .
we know all of the country who not have not the means of buy of the food , but who would happy of eat if they disposaient of these foods .
he if is of a serious problem .
he is very sad that , with the resources and the machinerie necessary for produce as never before , we not news not enough of good sense policy for esteem a world who has hunger .
human not sometimes to understand that .
a sure number of senators have quoted of the figures .
take by example the oats .
I am teetotaliste , but I will examine this that collected the taxes on the whisky to basic of oats : 79 cents the bushel .
he there has also the barley , the Wheat , and cetera .
is - this important for the Canada ?
That the is , according me .
I congratulate the senators attendance here today today .
each of we has a role to play .
we must build a better Canada , and we going the do .
for complete , honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 4 November 99 , I move :
that the Senate recommends to the government of the Canada of give immediately 1.3 billion of $ to the farmers of the Western , as the have asked the first ministers of this region .
this assistance should reach to the farmers by the through of the Commission Canadian of the Wheat , under form of a payment to the acre .
his Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Gustafson , I have the regret of you inform that I not can not accept a notice of motion to this time - side , except if he there has consent unanimous .
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
not have - we not suspended the sitting ?
he if is of a debate Special who not allows the Presented of no motion .
his Hon. the Speaker :
I not can accept a notice of motion that if the Senator Gustafson request the consent unanimous .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
we have asked the leave .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I believe that he there has of the considerations who deserve reflection .
all of first , the motion whose the Senator Gustafson like give notice provides of the Estimates , and I me request if that is valid .
the Senator Gustafson :
this is a recommendation .
the Senator Hays :
of more , I believe understand that the debate of emergency if Adieu of a motion of adjournment and that , when the hon. Senator Gustafson approaches his place , the debate will adjourned .
I me hassles by therefore on the acceptability of a notice of motion during a debate of emergency .
the Senator Kinsella :
refusez - you the leave ?
the Senator Hays :
indeed .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the notice of motion not is not agreed .
honourable senators , he is proposed by the hon. Senator Gustafson , with the support of the Senator Cohen , that the Senate if adjourned .
to the words of the notwithstanding 61 ( 3 ) has ) of the Rules , the motion is agreed of board .
I leaving therefore the Chair for the repeating to 14 p.m. tomorrow .
( the Senate if adjourned to 14 p.m. tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 6
the Thursday 4 November 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
' ' '
the Late Mr. AntHony Gustave Vincent
tribute
the Second War World
the 50 - fifth anniversary of the battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence
the Court Supreme
the appointment of the hon. Beverley McLachlin to the position of Justice in Leader
the day of the Souvenir
the Late of Greg Moore
tribute
the Jour of the Souvenir
the Second War World
the 50 - fifth anniversary of the battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence
the Court Supreme
the appointment of the hon. Beverley McLachlin to the position of Justice in Leader
his closure possible by the government spend
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
the adjournment
the Act on the Defence national Position Act on the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques Conformity Code criminal
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the Code criminal
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the Association Parliamentary Canadian of the NATO
the situation of the aboriginal and their future
notice of inquiry
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Defence national
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King
the possible of transfer the investigations on the accidents to the Board of the security of the transport
the agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the possible of a funds of transition for the farmers who wish change of profession
the request of a program of keeping of the farmers on their Lands
the Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural - Conformity allowance of funds additional - Request of confusion of the statement of the Minister
the request of assistance financial in favour of the d?shydrateurs of luzerne
the fisheries and the Oceans
the provinces marine - Position decision of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of fishing aboriginal - Changes effects on the economy local
the possible of a extension of transition for the fishermen transpired change of profession
Order OF orders
the business of the Senate
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the Act on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the Committee of selection
Adopted of the fourth report
the Canadians eminent and their role to the Kingdom - U
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
Affairs foreign
Authorized to the Committee of clerical of the services
the SENATE
the Thursday 4 November 99
the sitting is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker met to the Chair .
prayers .
the Late Mr. Anthony Gustave Vincent
tribute
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not have learned that yesterday the Late of the former ambassador Anthony Vincent .
I know that several honourable senators the have known .
Mr. . Vincent is born in England .
he has concluded his studies to the States - United and he is joined in this who if called then the Department of the Affairs External , in as that diplomat .
he has accomplished a career remarkable who the has led in the world around , his past affectations having been the Spain and Andorre , where he was our ambassador .
he has also been our senior - Commissioner to the Bangladesh and our ambassador in Burma .
he has tireless in the missions Canadian to Position Hague and to New Delhi .
but this is to the then where he has been our ambassador to the Peru that he is became a heroes .
in 1996 , Mr. Vincent has played a role majeur during of the taken of hostages to the residence of the ambassador of the Japan to Lima .
we believe that his actions have licences of save several lives .
he has received the Tarnopolsky of the service consciousness of the Gouverneure general for his contribution extraordinary to the resolution of this crisis .
he was a heroes bienveillant and modest and a official esteemed of the Canada .
he has appeared of the role important that the Canada can play in the soon of a world more stable and better .
honourable senators , I like me join to the very hon. Prime Minister and to the Minister of the Affairs foreign for present our sympathy to the family Mr. Vincent , including to his wife Lucie and to his daughter Alexandra .
the Second War World
the 50 - fifth anniversary of the battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I like today today pay tribute to all the Canadians , those who live still and those who we have passed , who have served our country under the flags .
I want also contact a thank very Special to the Canadians who serve now to the abroad in the framework of missions of keeping of the peace .
this after - afternoon , I wish to speak specifically of the battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence , this relates of water who offer of very Gallery panoramas to the Quebec , to the New - Brunswick , in the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward , in Nova - Nova , to Newfoundland - Newfoundland and to the Labrador .
this is a seaway navigable to the within of the Canada to the hour current , and of many Canadians can thinking that that has always been the case , but in 1942 , this are the under - submarines of the Germany Nazi who there r?gnaient in compassionate .
this morning , under the auspices of our bienveillant Speaker , we have attended to a ceremony in this chamber for Calgarians the battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence of 1942 to 1944 .
for the updating , well heard , only two ships have been perdus after 1942 , the two in 1944 , and he if is therefore of the 50 - fifth anniversary , but for the most of between we who familiar can - be better the history discriminating , the battle of the Gulf if is d?roul?e , in fact , in 1942 .
honourable senators , the ceremony of this morning , Pritchard by His Excellency the Gouverneure general of the Canada , was warm and appropriate and we had among we a great number of submarines of the Shipping Shipping Canadian who have fought in these waters for defend our country .
the under - submarines German have found that the convoys who traversaient the Atlantic were relatively well protected in 1942 , to the following of the entry in War of the Americans and they have then decided of if attack to the Means navigables coastal of the America of the North for find of the ideal more easy during this that the turnarounds of the under - submarines German appelaient to the season of hunting American to or to the nice then to .
honourable senators , the under - submarines German have coul? in six months the long of the Coast of the America of the North of the ships representative 2.5 million of tonnes of goods .
the seven first months of 1942 have almost cost the War to the Alli?s .
you said that the under - submarines German had so the choice of the targets that they not rentraient to the port that because that they not had more of torpilles .
then that the battle of the Atlantic knowing heated in high sea , the under - submarines German have succeeded to if stickhandler in the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence , often in view of the coasts , to the research of ships operators without escorte .
in May 1942 , the battle of the Gulf innocently .
the U - boot German U - 553 was tracked to the broad of the Cape twins then that he accomplissait his first aliens .
to the during of the five months who turbulent , 21 ships altering be coul?s and few 200 submarines killed .
in 1944 , two ships of War were coul?s and someone 95 persons driving .
the Prime , this was the ship to steamship Nicoya - the Prime dock coul? in the waters domestic of the Canada by , I add , of the forces hostile since the War of 1812 .
unfortunately , this not party not be the last .
the HMCS Racoon , a b?timent arm? , was coul? by the U - boot U - 165 the 6 September 1942 , and the corvette HMCS Charlottetown by the U - boot U - 517 only five days more later .
the 14 October , this was the tragedy for the ferry Caribou , who Pedro the Liaison between the part continentale of the Canada and Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
his Hon. the Speaker :
Senator Forrestall , I regret of duty you interrupt , but the period of three minutes that you substantially for do your statement has expired .
the Senator Forrestall :
I am course that the honourable senators understand that this are of the Canadians faced we resource tribute today today .
the Court Supreme
the appointment of the hon. Beverley McLachlin to the position of Justice in Leader
the hon. Joan Fraser :
honourable senators , I like do few remarks to the about of the announcement made yesterday according which the next Justice in Leader of the Court Supreme of the Canada will Ms the Justice Beverley McLaghlin .
I think that all the Canadians if are delighted of this new and I believe that the women were particularly remplies of joy - the expression not is not too strong - to the announcement of his appointment .
this is the first wife to office the position of Justice in Leader of our Court Supreme .
this who we pleased particularly , this is that she not has not been appointed to this position because that this was a wife , but in reason of his excellence .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Fraser :
this is a CIBC quintessencielle .
can - you be more Canadian that someone a who is born to Pincher Creek , in Alberta ?
she has been admise to the Society albertain in 1969 and she has fact to little almost all this that he is possible of do in the system legal Canadian .
she has profession the right in a cabinet private of 1969 to 1975 .
she has unequal the right to the University of the British - British of 1974 to 1981 , then , in 1981 , she has reductions to the lower of the entirely of the correction , to the court of coincidental of Vancouver .
she not is not computer very long in lower of the wide .
he there has ten years , in 1989 , she has been appointed to the Court Supreme of the Canada Mr. Mulroney , then Prime Minister - the a of the best decisions that he gave taken , challenge - I say .
her the Justice McLachlin if is slaughterhouse difficult to cataloguer , this who is a something rare .
he not has not been possible , even to the commentators strongly distinct on the questions infuriate , of the geographic as owned to a school judicial or to a other since the announcement made yesterday .
all the world has simply could say that she was a Justice outside fine , fresher of a spirit achievement and independent , who not between well heard in no of the Each statute .
the a of the comments the more interesting that you gave facts on she is extend of the chairman of the Association of the Society Canadian , who has said : to contemporaries diminish this showing Canadian of do the things , of d?composer the problems in grandchildren problems and of if put to the solve . to
well that I not respectful not jurist , I have should move not difficulty of years to read of the kit of jurisprudence and I must say that , in as that former journalist , I me extasie also in wide that we have a Justice in Leader who continues the good tradition of write of the judgments of a way simple and clear .
he is important for the citizens of our country of power understand this that their said the Court Supreme and , when Ms the Justice McLachlin wrote , he not fact no doubt that you includes this that she said and why .
she has also said recently before the Society Canadian , and I quote :
the Parliament , with his best tools of maltreatment of the facts , with a better access to the opinions , to the information , is the place the more appropriate for the taken of decisions of nature policy , to beyond sense calling to .
this is very important , I in am some .
the day of the Souvenir
the hon. Norman K . Atkins :
honourable senators , as you the know , of the ceremonies discuss held the 11 November next for pay tribute to our former Veterans and other personal military .
we hope that the Canada and the world around comparable of a peace and of a freedom Impediment to the during of the century who starts .
I like today today pay tribute to all these Canadians who have fact of great inaction to the behalf of the freedom .
I have me - even some links with the First War World .
my father has fact part of the body exp?ditionnaire Canadian , the 46e Regiment of the Batterie of the Queen , who has took share to the mine battle of the plateau of Vimy , who has had francophonie 9 April 1917 .
of more , to the University graduated where I have examined , he there had a residence on the campuses , the home Willett , where if amorphous a salon who had been designated the Milton Gregg Lounge , in the honour of the a of the soldiers Canadian the more known and the more basic .
Milton Gregg was the a of the 19 Canadians to if be seen Crowshoe the Red of Victoria , that he has deserved to Cambrai , in France , to the during of the week of the 28 September to the 1 October 1918 .
he is sad of thinking that the enough of the former Veterans of the First War World , of the Second War World and of the War of Korea if ?claircissent little to little .
of after the figures exclusions in March last by the Department of the Affairs Veterans , he rest only 669 former Veterans of the First War World , 390 230 of the Second War World and 17 783 of the War of Korea .
he we responsibility of honour these Canadians of sort that their inaction and their Longboat remain always in the memory of the Canadians .
I want speak a moment of the men and of the women of the Forces Canadian who serve vaillamment their country today today , that this be here to the Canada or in mission of keeping of the peace to the abroad .
too often , we forget of appreciation our appreciation and our gratitude others our vaillants military in service active .
they have m?rit? numerous and numerous time our respect and we must find of the ways of their show that we we soucions of them .
honourable senators , to all these Canadians who are always surviving and to those who are d?c?d?s , we indeed our linear gratitude and we perpetuate their remember .
the hon. Calvin Woodrow Ruck :
honourable senators , I rise me also the speak to the opportunity of the day of the Souvenir .
I request humbly that in observant the Jour of the Souvenir , you you rappeliez that we , the minorities to the Canada , have we also served our country and that we are loans to the serve still to well of the ways to the future .
we are loans to do opposite to any constituted order of preserve the principles democratic that example our country .
the Late of Greg Moore
tribute
the hon. Gerry Germain :
honourable senators , I rise today today the speak for pay tribute to a great Canadian whose we d?plorons the disappearing , Greg Moore .
I have had the honour of represent the riding of McAlister - Port Moody , the country of Terry Fox , a of our great heroes Canadian , and the region of Maple Ridge , the country of several great athletes - by example Cam Neely , a great player of hockey , Larry lifer and Greg Moore .
the 31 October , a affreux accident if is product on a stretch of fisherman of Motor in California .
Greg has d?marr? his career of coureur automobile home his father , who was concessionnaire of cars Chrysler , to Maple Ridge , on the Highway of Lougheed .
that if find in a coincidental that I have already represented .
to the then where I was member and Minister of the cabinet in the other House , I passais often on this road because my office not was not far .
I have seen this star , in his young years , shepherding of the karts in the corner .
I knew also his father and of other members of the family .
Greg has known the notori?t? very young , aware to the sides of great Pilots as the Villeneuve , Fittipaldi , Andretti and Paul Tracy .
he has known if impose .
we were many to see in him a heroes .
many of young Canadians the aware as such .
he was not only sympathetic and kind , but he was also always prepared to participate to the programs of promotion of the security road in the schools and other initiatives Impediment to the conduct and to his profession .
I know that all the persons here revitalizing located if join to me for offer to his family and to all his friends our sympathy the more sincere for the loss of this distinguished Canadian .
the Jour of the Souvenir
the hon. Bill Rompkey :
as the Senator Forrestall and of other the have mentioned , he there has had this morning , in this chamber , a ceremony moving for the Shipping Shipping .
I chair loved that a more great number of my colleagues carry there attend .
if they had been here , they number left the site the eyes blinkers of water , I in am sure .
I want thank the Speaker of have licences that the ceremony if snapshots in this chamber and for his participation to the comm?moration .
I hope that we able celebrate each year this ceremony in remember of the Shipping Shipping .
if you substantially fact campaign to Newfoundland - Newfoundland , and including in the regions rural of this province , as I the have fact , you seen seen on various walls a or several of the photographs following :
locked Joey , the Pope , the Queen , John Kennedy and a page of the Caribou .
he has sombr? during the Second War World .
many of people that I knew are dead on this dock .
he is became a symbol grand of the Shipping Shipping and a symbol of those who have been mobilis?s and of those who are achievement volunteers do their share for contributing to the effort of War even if they not underline not the brutes .
during of the ceremony of this morning , you has celebrated these people and you has recognized their contribution to the effort of War .
honourable senators , I hope that we not manquerons not the opportunity of participate , the 11 November , to the ceremonies who if d?rouleront in our regions for Calgarians those who if are fought and who have given their life for do of this country this that he is today today .
the Second War World
the 50 - fifth anniversary of the battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence
the hon. M. DeWare :
honourable senators , as the hon. Senator just of the mention , we were all invited by the Speaker to attend in this Room this morning , to 11 p.m. , to the ceremony month the 55e anniversary of the battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence .
for you give a idea of the importance and of the impact of this battle historic , I like you do share of the comments of the hon. George Baker , who has took share to the ceremony .
he has said :
this year , we comm?morons a episode little known of the Second War World who if is defenders here even to the Canada .
this is the history incredible of the men and of the women who have defended our settle , our waters and our sake in the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence , between 1942 and 1944 .
a great number of between them , there including of the members of the Marine Royal Canadian , of the Bomber Royal of the Canada , of the Shipping Shipping of the Canada and of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , of the services allies and of the Nursing Sisters Association of Canada there have left their life .
50 - five years more later , this is with pride and gratitude that we saluons these advocates and their docu dead to the combat .
these Canadians and delay have fought vaillamment for the peace and the freedom .
they are dead in perpetuate their houses and their homeland against a attack direct .
of the civilians innocent have canoe with them .
to because of the circumstances of the War , a great number of between them not have even not of falls for the honour .
Mr. . Baker we has also reminded this who following :
we have the duty not only of we remember of these persons , but also of convey their history to the generations future .
honourable senators , we have indeed this responsibility .
the ceremony who if is held today today here even to the Senate is the a of the ways whose we can honour those who have participated to the battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence .
her the Gouverneure general , Chairwoman Clarkson , was presented to this opportunity .
she if is attached to the former Veterans of the battle of the Gulf , of the men and of the women who have fact of the inaction for their country .
this event commemorative regroupait also of the families and of the friends of those who have given their life for our country .
that me has fact warming to the heart of see of the hundreds of students sitting to the gallery .
behind we if twenty of the cadet of the Shipping , of the air and of the army .
them also are came for if remember and for participate to this ceremony very special .
this is to our young that he book of preserve the heritage successors by our former Veterans .
he works to the Seniors in the society of encourage the new generations to if remember .
to payments of parliamentarians and of Canadians who have of the memories personal of the Second War World and who have lost of the parents and of the friends to the during of this conflict , our duty to this regard is still more requiring .
we can including we carry of this duty in attended to of the events as extend of the ceremony of the Souvenir of this morning .
despite a some r?ticence , I must say that I have had a little shame this morning of pointed that only 15 senators were attendance .
the former Veterans and the children have seen that approximately 80 seats were free .
his appointment to the number of the ninety great heroes Canadian of the 20 century
the hon. Catherine S . Callbeck :
honourable senators , he there has more of 90 years , during of the unwilling of the version original English of the Orwell Anne ... Position House to the pignons mailing , you was far of thinking that this Orwell become the a of the exclusivity of fiction the more kitchens of the literature Canadian , but he is ind?niable that he fact now part of our identity cultural .
Anne transcende the generations and the boundaries to the Canada and across in the world .
he is surprising of thinking that today today , almost a century after the first publication , the young rightly always Anne as a model of role positive .
well course , Anne ... Position House to the pignons mailing is the implement of Lucy Maud Montgomery , who we has given of many other exclusivity fascinantes to the during of his career literary , there including the romans on capably is based the series Faries of New Moon , who is currently t?l?diffus?e in this time .
recently , in the framework of a bill sponsored talking Dominion Institutes and the Council of the Canadians , Lucy Maud Montgomery has been pantheon as doing part of the 20 great Canadians of the 20 century .
all the population of the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward know to what point this is true and , through to the writing of Montgomery , the other can if in pay account also .
l . Mr. Montgomery is a treasury literary and the population of the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward are proud that she be the a of the their .
now , we know that the other Canadians are them also proud of she .
the Court Supreme
the appointment of the hon. Beverley McLachlin to the position of Justice in Leader
the hon. rald - A .
honourable senators , I wishes congratulate the hon. Justice Beverley McLachlin for his statehood to the position of Justice in Leader of the Court Supreme of the Canada .
I me delighted of this appointment who enters in vigueurle 7 January 2000 .
he if is , as you the know , of the first wife to access to this position very prestigious in the system constitutional Canadian .
her McLachlin is a excellent jurist who has gravi all the echelons of the correction for , finally , become Justice in Leader of the Canada .
in effect , after have been Sudbury , then lawyer in practice privacy , she has been appointed successivement to the Court Superior of the British - British , then to the Court of appeal , before of return to the Court Superior to payments of Justice in Leader .
in March 1989 , she was appointed to the Court Supreme of the Canada , to the age of 46 years .
she has fact his Gallery in number of areas of the right .
you not is not without know the great place that nat today today the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms in our lives and the role increased of our court of last resort .
the Justice McLachlin has also received of the Doctorates Doctorates of the universities of the British - British in 1990 , of the Alberta in 1990 and of Toronto in 1995 .
I him wish all the success that she deserves well , to the summit of the power judicial , and in the contribution of the cathedral of the jurisprudence Canadian .
his closure possible by the government spend
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , this not is not easy of live in French in Ontario under the government of Mike Harris .
the file of the Hospital fought is always before the courts .
we forward since five months a decision on the fate of this institution of health French in Ontario .
hence that today today , the government Harris if furthered to eliminate a other institution French , but this time in the field of the education .
he if is of the College of Pellan , the only college to offer of the during in Science agri in French in Ontario .
the government Harris cause still his minority French who if battra for maintain this institution that this community has developed 50 years to build .
the francophones of the Ontario have the right of ceased , of live and of work in their language .
the is of the Ontario account a strong industry agroalimentaire that he we must to all price sauvegarder and this Fundamental proceeded by the survival of the College of Pellan .
still a time , he met tra?nerM. Harris and his government before the courts for obtain justice .
bloody that this is requiring and fatigant !
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
the adjournment
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 59 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate if adjourns today today , this be to Tuesday next , the 16 November 99 , to 14 p.m. .
his Hon. the Speaker :
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) presented the bill of bill S - 10 , Act amend the Statutes on the Defence national , the Act on the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques and the Code criminal .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the Tuesday 16 November 99 . )
the Code criminal
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the hon. Raymond J . Perrault :
honourable senators , I have the honour of present a bill of bill who had been presented during of the session modified , the bill of bill S - 11 , Act amend the Code criminal order of ban the coercition against a human to the regard of actions medical who are contrary to his religion or to his belief to the uniqueness inviolable of the life human .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Perrault , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the Tuesday 16 November 99 . )
the Association Parliamentary Canadian of the NATO
the delegation Canadian to the meeting of the availability - commission on the future of the forces Armed , held to Ankara and Istanbul , in Artillery - Tabled of the report
the hon. Bill Rompkey :
the situation of the aboriginal and their future
notice of inquiry
the hon. Aur?lien Gill :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Wednesday 17 November 99 , I call the attention of the Senate on the situation of the aboriginal order of we allow of do the point and of reflect on the measures update for the future .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Defence national
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
a other Sea King had of the ennuis with his system hydraulique this week .
we know that of such ennuis continuously of be surviving , particularly if the you if find in the airs .
honourable senators , when the government will he start this bill ?
can - be the government instead he a average of stop our ships of helicopters a little more quickly ?
after all , we know that he must replace the equipment , and we know also that the former government was prepared to initiate the process soon 1993 , before that the new not denies the program of the EH - EH .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank of his question the hon. Senator Forrestall , who if concern cleansing of the operating of the helicopters Sea King .
as I the have said to the senators he there has few days , the Alternative of these aircraft remains a priority for the government , and he is to the Prime rank of the priorities of the Minister present .
the fleet of helicopters - the ch - 124 Sea King - has been livr?e to the Forces Canadian in 1963 , I believe .
you if hallway then and you if expected always to this that these aircraft ensure in service until in 2005 .
he there has had of the incidents .
of the problems of maintenance have surgi .
of the 41 helicopters of the beginning , 30 are always used .
you is of notice that they can play their role until to this that a other apparatus the Vo .
the possible of transfer the investigations on the accidents to the Board of the security of the transport
the hon. Micheal J . Forrestall :
the honourable senators not are not without know that that fact now 1 825 days that the government we has promised that he siding immediately this program in implement .
the Leader of the government to the Senate is - he aware that we asking to the young men and to the young women of our Forces Armed Canadian of travel to board of a apparatus who is far of be Motor ?
the problem , this is that the aircraft are us?s .
they are fatigu?s .
their maintenance we costs a fortune .
he must 38 p.m. of maintenance and sometimes more for do steal a helicopter during a hour .
the Minister not if makes - he not account that we cautions in danger the life of the members of our Forces Armed Canadian ?
the Minister contemplated he the possible of deleted the responsibility of the investigations on the accidents to the military and of the transfer to the Board Canadian of the security of the transport , who would since of the years banned to these helicopters of steal ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the hon. Senator has all to fact reason when he described the skills of the members of the Forces Armed Canadian mercy of the maintenance and particularly of those who if roles of the helicopters Sea King .
he agree surely with me that those - there listed among the more exp?riment?s to the world for this who is of this kind of apparatus .
I not think not that the hon. Senator means let hear that the forces Armed could send in mission his staff in a apparatus that they not rightly not adequate and prepared for explicitly the mission .
he there has had and he continue certainly of there have of the challenges to met to the chapter of the maintenance .
when the length of life useful of a Room of equipment military hook to his end , the number and the grow of these challenges taxes .
that if is product and that continue of if produce .
what that he in be , that not means not say that we enverrions of the people in mission if their security and their life were in danger .
we should recognize the excellent work that the teams hires of the maintenance adequacy and that they continue of accomplish .
as the hon. Senator , I hope that these helicopters will replaced quickly ; of elsewhere , he there has few days to worthy , the Minister me has given the insurance that that remains his priority statement a and that he will in sort that the file marshalling to subject allure .
I will say to the Minister that the Senator and me - even the encourageons to resolve the question the more quickly possible .
the Senator Forrestall :
the Leader of the government to the Senate not has not answered to my question .
my question rest without response .
let - me of there add a track and I hope that he there respond .
following the second track of my question : the Minister recognizes - he that the work pre to the Alternative of the helicopters bidding had already been accomplished when the Prime Minister present has decided of cancel the program of acquisition of the EH - EH ?
two years of work have already been accomplies .
can - we have some assurance ?
we have whereas eight years and we not can not necessitates in more a gap of three years , because that this is criticism .
these helicopters not are not fiables .
you should the strike of ban of flight .
the Minister will he also we say this that he think of the proposal according which the monitoring of the performance of these aircraft would Creator to the Board of the security of the transport and not more to the military Canadian ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the Senator valid two questions .
he request of first if I can or not him ensure that the helicopters will replaced before eight years .
of after this that I can conclude of the conversations that I have liberty with the Minister , I am course that we not wait not eight years before of replace the Sea King .
I like succeed to the convince that we not regards not to expect still eight years before that the helicopters ensure replaced .
the Senator has also asked a question to the about of the investigations on the incidents related to the use of the aircraft military .
frankly , this not is not a field that I known many .
I think however that in General , the forces Armed of all the country if roles they - same of this kind of activity .
this not is can - be not necessarily the case and the Senator able can - be me enlighten to this about to a time given .
what that he in be , I not can answer of way specific for the time .
the Alternative of the fleet of helicopters Sea King - Position possible of the credit - lease
the hon. Gerry Germain :
honourable senators , my question is supplementary to the questions raised by the Senator Forrestall .
he if find that I have pilot? of the had of the Resistance of the air and that I pilot always .
I the specific for explain this that I will ask to the Minister .
the government is in considering of ask to the employees of the maintenance of do of the miracles .
I have began my career military in the maintenance before of do part of the staff Aircrew .
this is the reason for which I know that the pr?pos?s to the maintenance doing of the excellent work , but they not doing not of miracle .
I have read all recently that a hour of flight of these Sea King require 30 p.m. of maintenance .
he is went until to - and that you me takes if I have wrong - Authorize the turnarounds to not not steal if they felt that the apparatus not was not course .
when you in is realized there , this is ran .
how the Minister has he could the do in as that member of the cabinet ?
I believe that if a accident declared , the responsibility in incombera fully to the cabinet , particularly to the Minister of the Defence national and to the Prime Minister of the country .
I believe that he there has of the solutions , as the sublease of helicopters .
he there amount of aircraft in good state of relative in the world who could be used for this service in any security .
why not optons - we not for this possible ?
when I have asked this question to the predecessor of the Leader of the government , he has answered that he in had discussed with the Prime Minister and that this solution was to the study .
I have laboured to board of a aircraft to four places in company of a other of our senators .
I have awarded a attention particular to the question of the security .
even if the Senator had been Liberal , I chair awarded the even attention to the security .
when I was in the forces air , I have surely pilot? of the had having to their board of the Liberal or laboured in company of Liberal , and I was all also aware of their security .
honourable senators , I please urge the Minister of study the possible of rent of the aircraft and I request that the you me comprehensive a response to this regard .
as I the have said , he there has of the million of helicopters .
in America of the North only , you in find to the least of the thousands .
why not leases you not ?
why staffs - we our military of the sort ?
the way whose we staffs our military to various other ways is also bid .
why staffs - we of the sort the turnarounds who dollar to save of the lives and who , this doing , sells in calling their own life ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
the hon. Senator has raised good number of points and I not chercherai not to answer to each of between them .
more specifically , in this who respect the helicopter Sea King , the hon. Senator has mentioned that my predecessor has had of the discussions with the Minister regarding the possible of approach to the sublease .
I not have not spoken this question with the Minister .
however , I will certainly try of have a discussion similar with the Minister and I happy can - be then in legislation of provide of the information more precise .
honourable senators , before of repeating my seat , I wish to highlight that the Forces Armed Canadian perform a work remarkable , with the helicopters Sea King or all other apparatus .
they have been appuy?es by the government .
to my notice , the people who are mercy of the maintenance of the helicopters Sea King , in more of accomplish a work remarkable , not hands never that a aircraft be used if they feel that he step a threat for those who if find to his board .
the pr?pos?s to the maintenance of the helicopters Sea King perform a work remarkable in of the circumstances who , must - he the recognize , are difficult , particularly when the you keeps account of the fact that he if is of old aircraft .
the agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the possible of a funds of transition for the farmers who wish change of profession
the hon. Herber O . Sparrow :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
however , before of the ask , I wish of new to him express my thanks and those of the House for have authorized the held of the discussion that we have reflected yesterday to the about of the crisis agricultural to the Canada .
I thank all the honourable senators of their contribution to this debate .
I have believed understand that the Minister of the Agriculture will today today a statement to the House of the Commons on the increase of the budget of the program ACRA .
I am however a little nervous before a section The in the Globe The Mail of today today where you reads that :
you believes also that the Minister contemplated of create a funds interim for the farmers who decision of abandon to the agriculture and of if recycler .
I am nervous because that I not known no organization of farmers and no farmer having asked a such program .
that me give to thinking that the government trying of watch the farmers to abandon the agriculture .
this not is not the objective of our representations .
this that we want , this is allow to the farmers of continue of grow the land , not the encourage to the leave .
when the farmers of the Saskatchewan , of the Manitoba and of the Alberta leaving the campaigns , the fabric social of this part of the Canada is d?chir? .
he must that all the farmers and all the families of farmers remain there where they are for support the system of the elevators to grain , the system of education and the system of health .
if the section said true , I am very nervous .
the Leader of the government to the Senate can - he we say if the government and the Minister of the Agriculture elongated seriously of offer a such program ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank the hon. Senator .
for answer to the first part of the question , I pretend that I not am to the aware of no discussion or of no proposal in this sense during of my talks with the Minister .
I not can therefore answer to the question of know if the idea has been proposed by a other organization .
however , as I me paid to the Senate this after - afternoon , you me has left a release of the Minister of the Agriculture and of the Agroalimentaire who outlining the details of the offer made by the Minister .
I have asked to my staff of me above the version bilingual of the announcement order that the senators carry in take knowledge .
I account the receive under little .
if such is the good happy of the honourable senators , I their remettrai of the copies of this announcement .
the announcement not fact state or of program of buy or of other provisions of this nature .
this amount if add to the someone slightly million of $ paid to the payments of Payments federal annual to the farmers .
of more , of other changes to the guideline of Administration of the program are to the study .
in all case , you provides that the first ministers provincial who are came to Ottawa recently for express their concerns to this regard if joindront to the government federal for pay the program ACRA many more accessible .
I suppose that the provinces continue of adh?rer to the rule current of the sharing of the costs based , who if fact on the basic of 60 / 40 in approval account of these 170 million of $ modified .
in this case - there , the funds if Gustafson stop of a other amount considerable .
the request of a program of keeping of the farmers on their Lands
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , I have a question supplementary regarding the keeping of the farmers on their Lands .
to the hour current , he not rest more that 2.5 per of the population Canadian in the sector of the agriculture .
he is therefore very important of the there maintain .
to the States - United , the chairman Clinton has said that he has decided of sign a such legislation because that the farmers are face to a real situation of emergency and not can not expect .
the legislation required a amount of 8,7 billion of $ for the farmers U.S. .
the chairman of the Syndicat national of the farmers has said that this infusion of assistance can do the difference between abandon and stay in Affairs .
the important , this is of keep the farmers in agriculture .
the Leader of the government to the Senate would - he the please of communicate that to the cabinet ?
we have been happy of learn that you had took some measures for infuser more of capital in the situation .
I think that this is far of be sufficient , met given the exhaustion serious of the situation to which we do opposite .
however , the Leader could - he we ensure that he African the government to tough a program for keep the farmers in agriculture rather that of the help to the abandon ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not have no difficulty to say that the you should do all this who is expectation possible for keep the farmers in agriculture , where they continue of contribute a contribution to the life and to the society Canadian as they the have fact to the over of the years .
I like simply paraphrasing a part of the release of press who just of me reach .
the Minister of the Agriculture and of the Agroalimentaire said : to We meantime to the provinces of if associate to we , in the framework of the program ACRA , for cover 70 per of the marges negative of the producers or / of the measures imports . to
by elsewhere , the Minister of the Agriculture and of the Agroalimentaire has said that we going continue to work with the provinces and the sector agricultural for find of the manners of come in assistance to the farmers , particularly those who are the more in difficulty .
this statement said without no doubt that a commitment of the government federal there and that he is informed of are important for come in assistance to those who are the more in difficulty and who continuously the more of have to leave their land .
I me forward to this that this legislation will the effect d?sir? by the hon. Senator .
the Minister of the Agriculture and of the Agroalimentaire deserves of be helpfulness of be past to the action without expect a solution n?goci?e with the provinces .
in rigour immediately this money in the program , the Minister and the government federal r?agissent of way very direct and very active .
you suppose that the provinces their embo?teront the not and features to the aspire of the ACRA .
the government federal and the Minister not have however not wanted do tra?ner the things during a week , wavered days , ten days , a months and not have not whereas of have a guarantee written to this effect .
the Minister has responded immediately .
this money will improve the operating of the program .
he will reach to the farmers whose the needs are the more great and who continuously the more of leave their Lands .
the Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural - Conformity allowance of funds additional - Request of confusion of the statement of the Minister
the hon. Herbert O . Sparrow :
honourable senators , the Leader means - he say that the new funds will paid before the former ?
is - this there this that he means say when he said that the things informatics more soon ?
the farmers not have not still received the former funds faced they have right in under of the program ACRA and now , you committed say that the new funds their will paid more quickly ?
I me request if the Leader of the government to the Senate could rapporter the message following to the Minister , to know that for these new funds , we not have not really need of a other accompany of 47 pages .
we in have enough of the former ; we item someone something of more simple .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the government has recognized that the funds who were planned in the framework of the program ACRA not were not paid enough quickly to the beneficiaries .
I have listened the excellent intervention that the Senator Carstairs has made yesterday in this House .
she has clear and in any candeur underlined the problems that possession the program .
the money not was not paid to the farmers in the need also quickly that the government federal and the other parties to the agreed ACRA the had wanted .
he not was not paid to the farmers also quickly that the concepteurs of the program the had wanted .
the use of these new funds will schemes to the same rules .
the funds informatics in the even garbage .
the Minister has however also announced that some changes would Regional to the program , through faced he is to hope that the farmers receive this money many more soon .
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , in under of the former program , in the case of a average of three years of a farmer , if he has gr?l? a year and that then the drought has s?vi a or two years of following , the 70 per of this average on three years not suffiraient recognize not .
the Minister could - he do understand to his colleagues of the cabinet to what point he is important of help the farmers whose the needs are the more criants ?
if they have been victims of pots or of hailed , 70 per of two years bad not riment to nothing .
this are these people who have the more suffered ; this are these people who in have the more need .
for that the program be effective , of the changes if impose for put a term to these suffering .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the problem has can - be been corrected .
I paraphrase to new the release .
I know if this change amending a solution to the problem raised by the Senator , but he allows of believe that a assistance is portion for the situations that he we has pointed .
honourable senators , that he me be licences of table the release .
I just of the receive in the two languages official and I bring do of the copies additional for the senators who the wish .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker :
we in happen of the copies and the distribuerons soon that they will ready .
the request of assistance financial in favour of the d?shydrateurs of luzerne
the hon. Nicholas W . Taylor :
honourable senators , I have a question supplementary .
the Leader of the government to the Senate can - he inform the cabinet of the problem that familiar the d?shydrateurs of luzerne of the Western , who seniors their Hempline deposited of the farmers ?
they are in difficulty , because they had promised to the farmers as of $ the tonne and they must the sell least sir .
he if is primarily of small companies , sometimes of the Cooperatives .
few dozens of between they in the west of the Canada expect probably bankrupt , because the Minister of the Agriculture has determined that they were in effect of the companies and that they not were therefore not eligible to the program ACRA .
yet , if they doing bankrupt , a sure number of farmers not able more sell their luzerne .
even if he if is there of very small businesses , they justified of the jobs .
since the program ACRA not is of no assistance to this regard , I hope that the Leader of the government to the Senate able communicate their problem to the cabinet and know if he there a other average of the help to the during of the two or three next years and of keep open the d?shydrateuses of luzerne .
after all , the farmers in have greatly need .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I know grateful to the Senator of the comments that he has made to this about .
I me bring a happy of communicate his concerns to the cabinet , including to the Minister department .
the fisheries and the Oceans
the provinces marine - Position decision of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of fishing aboriginal - Changes effects on the economy local
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , my question door on a about little different , be the decision that the Court Supreme has decided recently in the case Marshall .
little important the way whose you can consider this decision , the most of the people suitable that she will of deep impact on the life of the aboriginal and of the other Canadians of the region of the Atlantic .
in addition , the measures of Humane discuss of the consequences for the economy and the Finance of all the Canada .
I will mention his consequences Moneys for the gas of the Island of Sable , the rights of cutting and the rights minerals , and therefore of following .
the Leader of the government to the Senate could - he say what measures and what plans of emergency are currently developed in implement for do opposite to the ajustements economic and to the impact of the judgment of the Court Supreme ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , as you the knows strong well , the decision Marshall has of first had for effect immediate of create a crisis in the fisheries to the Canada Atlantic .
the priority of the Minister of the Fisheries and of the government has been of try of unconventional the situation to the more soon in the hope of bring the test and of promote the held of talks between the two parties of manner to find a solution sustainable to a problem who has of the impact very serious to short term .
some stages whose we have been witnesses we have all developed difficulty to the comfortable , I in am sure .
the process of negotiating to short term seems be well established .
the test seems restored and we have good hope of do current the talks .
he not can be tenure only by the fishermen of the Canada Atlantic , not more of elsewhere that by the employees of office of Vancouver .
this is all the country who must ensure the regulation , in recognition of the rights aboriginal such that d?finis by the Court Supreme .
I me forward to this that this be a process to long term .
however , in the sectors where he must soon now find a solution , including in the fisheries of the Atlantic , I think that you has fact of the excellent work and I hope that you continue in this vein .
the possible of a extension of transition for the fishermen transpired change of profession
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , I not have not could do words that pointed the question that the Senator Sparrow has raised more earlier to the about of the programs of Humane who are Softwood or of the rumour according expelling of such programs would Softwood for the sector agricultural .
various sources argue that of the are have been ensuing for a sort of program of Humane - I not parlance not the word to buy to .
I have heard speak of 500 million of $ - I believe have accounted eight z?ros after the five - who would paid only for the sector agricultural .
this is there a amount enormous .
the even kind of approach is - he arisen for the fisheries - in of other words , contemplated you of buy the licences of some persons of the sector of the fisheries and of other sectors , this who ajoutera of other z?ros to the amount - or is - this simply a rumour who restorative ?
I remind to the Minister that he there has currently many of uncertainty in of many communities .
the fishing of Winter , a fishing very limited , will soon begin .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not can confirm no figure based on of the conjectures .
I if very surprised that of the figures shifted been advanced to this stage .
a of the reasons is including that you not knows not still any the scope of the judgment Marshall - his application , his story and story .
someone share , in the maze government , someone a ?chafaude can - be all sorts of scenarios , but I doubt that of the figures shifted been seriously Softwood to this stage .
he is possible that a buy if mat?rialise to a sure stage .
to comments , honourable senators , I not can not confirm - well to the contrary - of the rumour of this kind to the about of the farmers .
I not am to the aware of no program of buy of the farmers .
I not want not misleading the Senate in mistake to this regard .
however , the situation is little different in the case of the fisheries .
a program of buy is already in force .
in fact , he there a program aboriginal of buy in the framework wherein you redeem of the licences in some sectors of the fisheries for the back to the community aboriginal .
this program properly already before the judgment Marshall , and he is to little almost course that he if shall under a some form .
I underscored to new deposited of the Senator : the situation valid a challenge not only to the fishermen of the New - Brunswick or of the Nova - Nova , but to all the Canada .
Order OF orders
the business of the Senate
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I request to the Clerk of call in Prime the second point to the Order of the day , under the Order of the to Projets of bill to , to know , the second Reading of the faults bill C - 6 .
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
- honourable senators , I am happy of have the opportunity of speak to the Senate of the bill of bill C - 6 , whose the payments abr?g? is Act on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic .
with the arrived of the new economy of the information , the Canadians find of new ways of communicate between them , with the markets , with the governments and the world around .
all the Canadians have a interest in the new economy of the know who affects of the changes who touch profoundly all our lives .
the success of the Canada to the 21 century depend of the ability of all the Canadians of participate with success to the economy World of the know .
for ensure this participation , we satisfied act quickly order of give to the Canadians the access and the skills necessary and of their ensure that this new Technology not minera in nothing the respect of the information personal whose they can now interfere .
the faults bill C - 6 , the Act on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic , is a not important in the too of these objectives .
honourable senators , the bill of bill C - 6 is the evolved of a review enlightened by of many expert in the field of the protection of the data and of the trade Electronic , of consultation public broader and of a review thorough to the other place .
he will submitted to of intense hearings by a Committee Standing of the Senate .
the bill of bill if attack to three questions broader for help the Canadians to well exploit the true potential of the Internet as m?dium of information and average of nothing .
the bill of bill will , first , create a solution of alternative Electronic for deal with the government federal ; second , establish a sat legal for the issues electronic and of the signatures electronic seemingly ; third , protect the information personal of the Canadians when they inconsistent with of the businesses private .
the government federal has been the a of the first to use the system Internet for improve the services that he older to the Canadians , all in accroissant the effectiveness and in reducing the costs .
good number of the transactions Conducted by the government federal deposited of the public , of the transmission of the statements of income to the research of information on a variety of subjects , can now be Conducted of way Electronic , and this of way many more quick and least offers that stood .
however , you could do many for learn profit of all this that the Internet has to we offer if you modifiait the laws and regulations federal in force .
good number of our laws and regulations explicitly that the information must be Message by wrote or that some documents must bringing a signing .
these provisions can be interpr?t?es , and the are often , as requiring a transaction manuelle on paper , emp?chant soon during the Order to of the practices electronic .
the bill of bill C - 6 we allows of pay our laws and regulations consistent with our new environment Electronic .
he we allow of offer a solution of alternative to the transmission of information on support paper .
the parties 2 to 5 of the bill of bill C - 6 exclusive the itself - saying party took for the support paper in our laws and regulations federal in doing essentially away this concept of support .
words said , the laws and regulations reconna?trons now the detour and information electronic on the even foot that the documents suffice .
the bill of bill C - 6 obey the transactions Conducted on support Electronic to the words of the laws federal imports to those Conducted on paper .
the citizens and the businesses able then be some that the documents and signatures electronic have the even value legal .
the bill of bill C - 6 not remplacera not and not eliminate not the Communications by wrote .
he will rather of the transmission Electronic of data by computer a option to the time realistic , practice and particularly intrigued to the level legal .
of more , we search to the government federal of offer of the services under a form who becomes of more in more popular deposited of the Canadians , be by seaway Electronic , to the average of Internet .
the Canadians want more that never do of the transactions electronic , not only with their governments , but also with the sector private .
well of the evidence come the confirm , transmission of the results of surveys of opinion to the number of transactions currently Conducted on Internet and to the rate of growth of these transactions .
in reason of the presence of the networks and of the memories increased to which if doing in this field the progress technological , the businesses tribute of more in more of information revenues of sources of more in more various , the ?changent more quickly , the transmettent more far and the combinent of way more ing?nieuse that never .
that has fishing the treatment of the information personal in a well .
the information personal are now " , sold and ?chang?s .
they have a some value commercial .
for that fleurisse the trade Electronic to the Canada , the consumers must be comfort on the way whose their information personal are collected , sauvegard?s and used .
the Canadians concerned that their life privacy not be danger by the popularity growing of the transactions electronic therefore that the Elevators of the information and of the fichiers accumul?s on each of between we .
they want that the government working with the businesses for resolve this problem .
according the results of a poll of the delaying Angus Reid diffus?s in July 1998 , 88p. per of the Canadians find to unacceptable to that the businesses and the organizations vendent , ?changent or shared of the understaffed enclosing of the information personal .
the environment of the Affairs has recognized the malaise that that could create and has adopted a Code volunteered of the protection of the information personal machinery by the Association Canadian of normalisation .
even if the efforts Process by the businesses for meet this Code are biodegradable , the Canadians have need of best guarantees order of have the certainty that their life privacy is prot?g?e when they doing of the transactions .
the bill of bill C - 6 guarantees to the Canadians that their life privacy will prot?g?e in providing a Code of protection of the information personal to the time formed and required .
to the hour current , the information personal facing all the boundaries , provincial , land and national .
however , met given that the bill of bill C - 6 is around on the world of the Affairs , the government federal believes that he Bennett a fiscal legitimate of his power of regulatory of the trade to the Canada .
however , honourable senators , the Committee referred this bill of bill is referred wholeheartedly of the evidence of expert who expect argue of the arguments for and against to the about of this question constitutional .
honourable senators , he is clear necessary of adopt of the laws national .
the provinces , that they act only or collectively , not can adopt of the laws evidence of protect effectively the information who franchit the limits provincial and international .
a business of the British - British recueillant of the information on of the clients to the Manitoba could the negotiates to a other business to the New - Brunswick or to New York .
he is therefore clear that the Canada has need of a bill national for protect the data personal in benchmarks circumstances - of a bill who would Blended with those of the provinces and of the territories acted their role in their cast of jurisdiction .
honourable senators , the bill of bill C - 6 will if apply to all the sectors of activity , regardless of the size of the businesses .
that includes also the sector of the health .
he will allow of protect the information personal in Equity of health who have been collected , used and releases in the framework of activities trade .
for that the rules on the protection of the data conflict of a juridiction to the other , the government encourage the provinces and the territories to protect the data of the citizens in their cast of jurisdiction and to the harmonize not only with the bill federal on the protection of the information personal , but also between them .
the part 1 of the bill of bill C - 6 establishes the right to the protection of the information personal .
she states the rules who must govern the raising , the use and the communication of the information personal in the framework of activities trade .
the principles viewed in the standard of the CSA have relates to the way whose the organizations should hear , use , negotiates and protect the information personal .
they indiscriminately that the businesses must explain the purposes experienced the information are collected ; obtain of the particular the consent of hear the information ; use and negotiates of the information personal ; and understand of the measures Authorize the access to the issues and providing the responsibility of the organization .
this is the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy of the Canada who will responsible of superviser the enforcement of the part 1 of the bill .
he will responsible of do inquiry and of play the role of m?diateur in case of dispute therefore that of do inquiry in the case of the complaints .
to my notice , the Committee cite including discuss of the rules necessary for ensure to this that the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy , in the fiscal of his roles of investigator and of m?diateur , respect the lines guidelines fully of various decisions complete by the Court Supreme , there including the decision regarding the powers in Equity of delving , of perquisition and of cases of the former Act Current to the investigations on the coalitions in report with the case of the Edmonton Journal .
this is clearly there a aspect on which the Committee cite if dealt .
the differences not unravel can be broader in the framework of this bill in if showing before the Court federal for that she educate submission the question .
the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy if seen also wants a strong mandate in Equity of education of the public , be help the businesses to satisfy to the requirements of the bill .
to the hour current to the Canada , you can say that the protection of the information personal is sporadique and in?gale .
the majority of the industries not are absolutely not fairest of meet someone rule that this be regarding the cueillette , the use and the disclosure of the information personal .
the other are covered to this that the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy of the Canada has called a to organizes to of laws , of regulations and of codifies .
he not there has that the province of Quebec who diminish a bill of vast scope divesting the use of the information personal by the sector private .
the businesses Canadian looking also that be agreed a legislation legislative who fixerait a only together of rules national order of uniform the rules of the stake to the wide of the country and of the various types of businesses .
the businesses Canadian liquidity that the protection of the life privacy has of the good sense on the plan of the Affairs .
they understand that a bill flexible , but effective help to convince the clients of accept the trade Electronic and , therefore , to increase the volume of the Affairs .
the Canada has need of a new bill for protect the life privacy .
this bill must ensure a sure balance .
of a share , he there has the right of the human of exercise a control on his information personal , and he must give to the consumers of the Order effective if they feel that you in has fact a use abusive .
of other share , the bill must answer to the needs of the industry , who must hear and use of the information personal , this who is a part vital to the success in the economy of the information .
honourable senators , I believe that the bill of bill C - 6 , whose we are before , assure the good balance .
he help to build the confidence of the consumer all in instaurant the rules who limited to the environment of the Affairs the climate of certainty whose he has need for exploit to extension the potential of the trade Electronic and therefore contributing to do of the Canada a Leader of leadership in the trade Electronic and the field of the information .
I have forward of take share to the study of this bill of bill to the Committee .
I invite urge all the senators to take share to this study and to refer the bill of bill C - 6 the more quickly possible to the Committee .
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I hear do of the comments enough ?toff?es on the bill of bill , after what I move the adjournment of the debate .
several persons and organizations have expressed of the concern to the about of this bill of bill .
I trying of take of the provisions for the meet to the beginning of the week next , if possible .
I expeditiously in particular to of the representatives of the sector of the health .
I not like not complete my comments to the step of the second Reading without hear their point of view .
after the adjournment of the debate , I me move of complete my intervention to our return , after the break of the day of the Souvenir .
I attention also to the honourable senators that to the least a other colleague of this side - side , the Senator Oliver , committed participate to the debate of second Reading .
in reality , the bill of bill covers two measures in a only .
her the Minister of the Justice has she - even influencing , when she has appeared before the Committee of the Commons , that he there had to the departure two bills of bill separate , this that the officials have confirmed .
to the during of the study to the cabinet , someone a is came with of the ciseaux and a although of glue and has decided of in do a only text .
the part 1 belonging the information personal who are collected to of the purposes trade .
the parties 2 to 5 veilleront to this that the documents and the tactical electronic ensure consistent with the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the Instruments regulatory , the Act on the review of the laws , and therefore of following .
this legislation facilitera the trade Electronic with the government of the Canada .
the part 1 and the parties 2 to 5 not if limit not to a principle or to a theme in particular .
this bill of bill is in effect a bill of bill omnibus .
this is similar of the hon. Herb Gray , who spoke then to the behalf of the Opposition to the opportunity of the debate on the free - Exchange to the House of the Commons in 1988 .
following his comments :
the Main advantage of a procedure omnibus , this is that the bill of bill in question , well that he intended to establish or to amend several laws disparates , speaks on a principle or a objective who creates a link between all the laws proposed , skill therefore the bill of bill intelligible in the context Parliamentary .
gold , this bill of bill to not framework not to , as you said , with this definition .
similar - side is very concise .
several portrait the have resuming by the following , the considering as a excellent definition of this that should be a good bill omnibus .
the bill of bill C - 6 not is not a good bill omnibus .
he speaks on two themes , two principles different .
be said in any charities and in approval account of the problems faced were face the editors , this attempt of invent a principle or a theme then that he not in is nothing not has nothing of very performance .
this is all to fact d?loyal .
hence still of the pirouettes legal and innocuous .
the first part of the bill of bill , regarding the protection of the information personal , door on the information personal collected of someone way that this be , by of the means electronic or all other average .
the long payments , in t?chant of give a principle single or a theme single to the bill of bill - I the say still a time in a spirit charitable - step a wonderful absurdit? that the editors we have concoct?e .
the Senator Stewart me has accused he there has few years of have the spirit of a mandarin .
I not think not that this be true .
even if this the was in part , I me inclinerais certainly before the Senator Kirby , because I not if even not in the even ligue that him to this regard .
however , I think have prior enough of experience for understand someone something to the spirit mandarin and even to the spirit policy .
to a time given , someone a is came and has said : to As we not have that as of time Parliamentary to our clause , collons these two bills of bill together . to
then you proc?da , ?lectroniquement well course , to the cut - rereading .
this is therefore that the bill of bill has been set .
this is always the even because , the even ground , to know the convenience of the executive to which the prerogatives of the Parliament have been numerous and numerous time subordonn?es since 30 years and who , to my humble notice , has fishing the House of the Commons in a real coquille vacuum .
this is very regrettable .
I not know not very well if we , of this side - side , should continue this question .
of a side , I me say that we must really take Position on of the things of this kind , by principle .
of a other side , I me say that to the other place , he if is past so of time that they have even forgotten in what could well gifts their prerogatives and that , if they not if in soucient not , why should - we we in venture ?
I will however advantage of the opportunity for consult my colleagues order of determine if , to a stage ult?rieur of the debate , we want continue the question .
the Senator Graham if recall certainly of the many examples of bills of bill divided by the Senate .
when I toeing of the side defeated and that I was responsible of the ACOA , I had presented a bill of bill designed to create this agency and of other agencies , whose the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape .
he there had of the provisions who if regroupaient very well , but my friend the Senator Graham and the Leader of his party to the then , the Senator MacEachen , had some reserves .
a message has been sent to the House of the Commons for him do know that we had divided the bill of bill in two , and the rest .
I wanted highlight that , honourable senators , even if this not is that to payments informatif , because that he if is of a question of principle .
the bill of bill was the bill of bill C - 54 during of the first session of the presented Parliament .
he is death to the Paper to the step of the report to the time of the prorogation and has been ressuscit? to the beginning of this new session .
this that I have to say on the bill of bill C - 6 and on the evidence heard by the committees has relates in great part to the deliberations on the bill of bill C - 54 .
of after this that I have could see , the parties 2 to 5 , be the parties on the trade Electronic , not reviewers no objection of principle .
the controversy , if I can really speak of controversy , just particularly of the part 1 , on the protection of the life privacy .
that example the problems who begin when the you wants of souder two bills of bill .
he if could very well that the witnesses , the other parties interested and the legislators of the other place shifted awarded too little of attention to the parties 2 to 5 . God knows that these parties are important .
they ambulances , between other , to the system judicial , be the courts , the right , the statements under oath and the rest .
he if could that , since the part 1 prepared more to controversy , the parties 2 to 5 shifted been examined in surface only as by the parties interested that by the legislators .
I the repeat , this is there a problem investigator of behold when you based two bills of bill in a only .
in this who respect the part 1 , and my comments of today today if limiteront for the most to this part , that he me be licences of express my great pr?jug? favourable .
I am a defender advocate of the protection of the life privacy .
that is indissociable of the dignity of the individual .
the Act on the protection of the life privacy protects the individual against any injured to his life privacy who would the fact of the government federal or of the a of his agencies .
this bill is effective .
to this that I far , she the has always been .
we not had not before today today of bill for protect the information personal collected in a context commercial .
I congratulate the government of have filled this deficiency .
he in was time and I there therein without contingency .
I seriously hope that he will held account of the support that we comptons contribute to this initiative - I believe power speak to the behalf of the senators of this side - side of the House - and that all this that I speak say to his about , who would investigator of move for of the criticism , will perceived to the favour of our agreed with this text who protects the information personal collected to of the purposes trade .
to this regard , I not see not of disadvantage , to the contrary of some persons , to this that the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy jouisse of some powers .
I not believe not that these powers ensure inordinate .
I believe that the life privacy of the individual important to a point such that the Parliament must go until - there , if he the must , for the protect .
I follows in way that the structure of the bill of bill has fact the subject of some criticism .
the Printed 1 she - even contains a combination of the aspects obligatoires - this who must be fact - and of the aspects urgently - this who can and should be fact .
the lawyers who have examined carefully this bill of bill and who have prepared of the findings written on this about have claimed that this would very difficult and that this that the you would should do , and that the you should always do , would of include all the provisions obligatoires understand in this Printed in the body of the bill , not bearing that the aspects possible or urgently in the Printed .
I raises the question to the intention of the Committee .
if that can allow of improve the bill of bill , as better .
you has fact of the representations to the House r?clamant a exemption general .
I not taken not many of kind of request .
he is possible however , in some areas , and extend of the health me just immediately to the spirit , that the you can ask a treatment particular in under of the bill , and I there reiterate more later .
as I the have already said , I not am not very favourable to this kind of request of exemption .
in fact , I not am not sure of be of agreed with some of the exemptions already CTAISB in the bill of bill to the hour current .
I like all particularly draw your attention on the notwithstanding 4 ( 2 ) c ) to the part 1 , who provides that this part not if applies not :
... to a organization to the regard of the information personal that she recueille , using or report to of the purposes legends , arts or litt?raires and to no other end .
I speak of first of the purposes arts or litt?raires .
of what if is - he ?
that not you seems he not be a definition extremely newest ?
I believe that she the is .
can - you the clarify a little ?
we should to all the least try .
when the question has been raised during the study of the Committee of the House of the Commons , he has been underlined to the during of a presentation that without this exemption , the distortions could be contrary to the bill .
you know this that are the distortions , honourable senators .
they understand a mixture of facts and of fiction .
they are interesting to look , but they should can - be be regulated by a bill of this kind .
you not should can - be not the exempt systematically .
I believe that the question deserves of be thorough .
for this who is of the exemption regarding the information personal collected to of the purposes legends , the reason for which this exemption is portion is very simple : if she not properly not and that this bill of bill was adopted , he would challenged , and strong probably with success , in under of the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms in sections the right of if express , the freedom of press .
this is probably true .
however , that raises a question in my spirit : why the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms not provides - she not the protection of the right to the life privacy , this who doctor this right on the even plan that the rights relating to the freedom of the press ?
I think that he is regrettable that the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms not pr?voie not a such protection .
let - me of give to the honourable senators few information of Order historic .
he there has long of that , in 1979 , the government Trudeau , by the through of his Minister of the Justice of then , Mr. Jean tien , prit the commitment , in a statement of principles constitutional , that the right to the life privacy would the a of the rights that the government federal proposerait of supporter in a future Charter of the rights and freedoms .
when the opportunity was came of the do during the period who has led to the Constitution of 1982 , this even government , r?incarn? under a form different after 1980 , if is cake .
Mr. . tien was of new Minister of the Justice .
the honourable senators if recall that a Committee Joint of the House of the Commons and of the Senate has examined the bill of canadianisation of the Constitution and , more particularly , the array of the Charter of the rights and freedoms .
the chairmen were the Senator Harry Hays , the father of our colleague , and Serge Joyal , who was then member .
the members Conservatives and NDP - discard of the Committee prirent the initiative of propose that the right to the life privacy be recorded in the Charter .
the Senator Kirby if in recall .
Mr. . tien if there opposa .
his argument was that the concept of life privacy was too newest .
in addition , he was of notice that the life privacy would enough prot?g?e by the section 7 , who door on the security of the human , and by the section 8 , regarding the fide , the perquisitions and the saisies abusive , of the Charter .
what that he in be , the initiative of the Conservatives and of the NDP - discard was defeated , to wrong , I think .
in the negotiations of 1992 who have manfully to the Agreement of Charlottetown , the present Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy , Mr. Bruce Phillips , is spoken and has asked , with many of to - comments , that a amendment be embraced to the Charter for that she garantisse the right to the life privacy .
in their wisdom , the first ministers not the have not fact .
you said sometimes that we are protected by the laws on the diffamation .
he should that of the persons more paid in the right that me analysent this deal , but all this that I can in thinking , this is that the media can print or according any the information that they the wish on not important who , pursuing that she ensure true .
be said in way , honourable senators , in a long section The in the edition of the Globe The Mail of this morning , you spoke of the efforts that doing the historians for cancel the commitment that Sir Wilfrid Laurier had spent in the bill for protect the data of the census .
I know that the Senator Milne has a opinion to this about .
number of historians want put the labour on of the data personal who have been communiqu?es under the Manual of the confidentiality to the recenseurs since 1906 , I believe .
the historians argue drew that he should rise this restriction .
Mr. . Phillips , Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy , says also drew that he not should not the rise .
let - me of say that I am of agreed Mr. Phillips .
if my great - father or my front - great - father have release of the information personal to the recenseur on the faith of the commitment took by Sir Wilfrid Laurier , I believe that he should meet this commitment .
as the hon. Senator the has fact pointed , to the Canada , he is inexorable that a bill of bill of this kind raises of the questions Constitutional , in the sense classic of the questions on the Division of the powers therefore that of the questions federal - provincial who are more of Order administrative .
on the question constitutional , the opinions address hand of a exhaustion to the other , be of the application appropriate of the power Liberal in Equity of trade until to the deal transpired that the bill of bill strictly far beyond - beyond of the skills of the Parliament federal .
my opinion of layman , that you takes for this that she worth , this who not is not many , 1 to similar that has stated the Senator Kirby .
I am of notice that this bill of bill provides a application dropping and legitimate of the power federal in Equity of trade ; of elsewhere , the Senator Kirby has presentation with to - comments , as only can the do a layman , some of the reasons who the Senate .
I add that to my notice , the government federal not should not hesitate , as the governments the have fact in the past , to contractual this power in Equity of trade .
his existence is valid .
faithful to his usual , the Association of the Society Canadian has presented a testimony little useful before the Committee of the House of the Commons .
doing pointed that some legal had said the legislation ultra ultra , that of other the had judged perfectly consistent to the powers who we era and that of other still had articulate a opinion if centralist between the two first , the Association of the Society Canadian certainty that all these positions were justified to the words of the Constitution .
the Association of the Society Canadian if met d?rob?e , I think that the Committee should , as the has proposed the Senator Kirby , examine to extension this question .
we must the study seriously .
we should hear the expert .
I believe that we able we contact to the senators who have more of knowledge and of experience that me in Equity constitutional .
they agreeable can - be even to amend the opinion that we have , the Senator Kirby and me , on this question , but I in doubt .
the Quebec is the only province who protects really the information personal collected to of the purposes trade .
the Quebecers benefit of a double protection since he there a chapter of the Code Civil of the Quebec who protects the information personal in more of a Act on the protection of the information personal .
the Senator Kirby not the has not mentioned , then I the getting .
during the three first years after the Assent Royal , after the proclamation , this bill if apply only to the activities trade who authority of the government federal and to the trade Interprovincial .
this is not is that after three years that she if apply to the activities trade to the within of a province , and only if this province not has not adopted of bill sharing .
you if request why the government if give all this difficulty , account held of the assertion firm of his power in Equity of trade , but I believe that this is Related to the fact that the Quebec has already a bill and that the Alberta would in considering of in prepare a .
I add that the ministers provincial of the Justice have all asked that this bill of bill be withdrawn .
as I the have said , I believe that this is go too far .
in more of the question constitutional , you has raised the problem of the doubt and of the confusion who can r?gner in the provinces who have their own bill , as the Quebec .
we regards then the bill federal , who if apply to the activities trade relevant of the federal and to the trade Interprovincial , and the bill provincial , who if apply to the activities trade to the within of the province .
he will can - be more difficult that you the think of do the distinction between these various activities .
that is - this who is Interprovincial and that is - this who is intraprovincial ?
what bill if apply , the bill federal or the bill provincial ?
he risk of there have of the difficulties administrative , of the ambigu?t?s and of the ?quivoques .
the problems administrative can always be surmont?s .
the Senator Kirby , a mandarin , effort certainly this assertion , but the ministers provincial , as I the have said , have asked that the bill of bill be withdrawn , and I believe that they should be heard for that you attempts of the assure or , if this is possible , of answer to their concerns .
the Senator Kirby has spoke of the sector of the care of health .
Mr. . Manley , the Minister of the Industry , who has sponsored this bill of bill to the other place , believes that he has answered to the concerns address to the average of a amendment that he has pr?sent?le 15 October , if I not me read .
of after the information that I have , the representatives of the sector of the care of health who have expressed of such concerns not are not of the all convinced that you has there answered .
the Association dental Canadian has adopted a Position enough firm to this regard .
this not is can - be not many the case of the doctors and of the hospitals , but they have all presented of the Crosbie and we satisfied hear this that they have to say during of the study of the bill of bill in Committee .
the Association Canadian of the care of health is particularly concern to this about .
the relations doctor - patient not are not of nature to commercial to , according the definition used in this bill of bill , or those can - be with the pharmacies and of other pourvoyeurs of care of health .
the Association Canadian of the care of health has obtained a notice legal very detailed and , I conclusion , very d?vastateur .
he just of a cabinet of lawyers of Montreal and the human who has wrote the letter of heal has took the worthy of do pointed that the lawyers who had worked to this question had all served , to payments of volunteers , of important positions in of the hospitals and of the associations of care of health , and cetera .
the senators who if interested to this bill of bill , and particularly who have the intention of take share to the study of this bill of bill in Committee , must absolutely read this notice legal .
I not am not of agreed with those who think that we should simply exclude the care of health and the sector of the care of health .
to my notice , we should reconsidered the possible of give to this important sector a place special in the bill .
as I the have said , I have the intention , personally or by the through of my officers , of their speak and of listen this that they have to say .
I reiterate on this question when I call end to my remarks , the 16 November .
after these remarks pr?liminaires , honourable senators , I move the adjournment of the debate .
( on the motion of the Senator Murray , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
he if is of a bill of bill important , met given that he treating of the improvement of the security of our children and of similar of other persons vulnerable .
however , he sometimes that we hurt in the obligation of study a great number of measures legislation important .
he worth therefore the worthy of farewell the major elements and objectives of the bill of bill .
of first and before all , the changes discuss for effect of increase the security of the public .
they features accessible , for end of review to the during of the filtrage , the stopped judicial of the offenders sexual who benefit of a rehabilitative and who if identification candidates to of the positions stipulates a situation of confidence .
therefore , a to indicateur to will opportunity in the system of the casiers judicial when a offender body will the subject of a rehabilitative and that his file will scell? .
that means that when a body who if nat of children cite know the history of new employees , volunteers or paid , the history of a candidate who has already committed a offence of nature sexual and to who has been granted a rehabilitative , not goes not inaper?us .
little of things are also troublantes that the idea that those who if attack to of the children innocent can find found in a organization where these children should if feel in security and protected .
we know yet that that is already came .
the bill of bill add a weapon to our arsenal for help to prevent these incidents .
in addition , the bill of bill will four things .
all of first , he obey more clear and reinforces the system of rehabilitative in providing the repeal immediate of the rehabilitative soon that he there will condemnation for this that you Order a offence Joint , this is - to - say a offence who can be alleging be by seaway of implementation in charge , be by seaway of statement summary of culpability .
second , the candidate who if is seen refuse the rehabilitative need expect to the least a year before of power present a new request .
third , the calls to the commission in case of refusal or of repeal if expect normally by wrote only , to least that the Commission national of the lib?rations reversal not confer a hearing .
fourth , the bill of bill indiquera more clear that the rehabilitative has for effect of sceller the file and not of effacer the fact that he there has had condemnation .
well that all these measures ensure important in they - same , I like me focus primarily on the question of the rehabilitative of the offenders sexual .
the Act on the stopped judicial establishes a system of rehabilitative for the former offenders who have demonstrated that they menaient now a life rang?e .
in under of this bill , the stopped judicial of the offenders can be scell? if they seniors their rehabilitative deposited of the Commission national of the lib?rations reversal .
he important of not not forget that the scellage not efface not the condemnation , not more that he not purge the stopped judicial .
the condemnation is after all a fact valve .
the stopped judicial can be r?ouvert on the request of the Solicitor General , when this is in the interest of the justice or of the security national .
honourable senators , the rehabilitative not is not granted easily .
she the is only if a human has fact evidence of a conduct irr?prochable and not has not perp?tr? of crime during a period constitutes .
in the case of offences punissables on statement summary of culpability , he is necessary of do evidence of a conduct irr?prochable during three years , after have purg? his worthy .
the bill of bill C - 7 specific clear that that includes the payment of amendes .
in the case of actions criminals more serious , the period of Awaiting is of five years .
the Commission national of the lib?rations reversal must confirm that the prohibitions has fact evidence of a conduct irr?prochable during any this period .
before of give a rehabilitative , you afterthought the police of all the communities where has lived the prohibitions to the during of the five past years .
he important of know that the vast majority of the r?habilit?s continue of meet the bill .
since 28 years , almost of a quarter of million of r?habilitations have been awarded and , of this number , only a little more of 6 100,000 have been r?voqu?es to because of a new offence .
that represents a rate of success of more of 97p. per .
the bill of bill C - 7 door primarily on the offenders sexual , who are a small under - group of the more great group of the candidates to the rehabilitative .
the Department of the Solicitor General has recently esteemed that to the during of the 28 past years , 4 200 offenders sexual had obtained a rehabilitative .
only 114 of these offenders , be percent per , have seen their rehabilitative r?voqu?e for have committed a other abuse sexual .
these estimates indicate that , fortunately , only a small number of offenders sexual r?habilit?s arise the risk of r?cidiver .
however , also small this number be - he , he is important of reduce this risk to the level the more lower possible .
the bill of bill C - 7 we help to the do .
the bill of bill C - 7 takes support on of the measures who have already been taken for protect the children and other persons vulnerable .
therefore , a not important has been fact in 1994 , when you has created the Classification national of filtrage .
this system speaks on the Centre of information of the police Canadian , the CIPC or , in English , CPIC .
through to the CIPC , the organizations have access to of the information who their created of eliminate the perpetrators sexual of children of their understaffed of candidates to of the positions who the ratify to work deposited of children .
the creation of this system has fact following to of extensive consultation deposited of agencies of services to the children , of authorities school and of responsible of services social , of agencies volunteers such that the Clubs of boys and daughters of the Canada , the Lakes Fr?res and the Grandes S9urs , B?n?voles Canada , therefore that the police and of the agencies of assistance to the victims .
these agencies have said that the audit of the stopped judicial was a part important of a process of filtrage more thorough .
the Classification national of filtrage is the evolved of the cooperation between the agencies of services to the children , the sector policiers , the Centre of information of the police Canadian , therefore that the departments of the Solicitor General , of the Health and of the Justice .
the Classification national of filtrage has given of good results .
the bill of bill C - 7 improve the Classification national of filtrage in corrigeant a pleasant who has been d?cel?e .
in effect , the file of a offender body r?habilit? can relentless to the attention to the during of a audit of use deposited of the Centre of information of the police Canadian , or CIPC , to of the purposes of filtrage .
in the state present of the things , the Solicitor General has the power of reopen the file of a offender r?habilit? and of the communicate to of the purposes consistent with the Administration of the justice , including for the filtrage .
as the issues of this kind are semiconductors of the system of the CIPC and retained to share in a basic of data scell?e , they not apparaissent not to the time of a research of use .
this system of protection , this is exactly this that intended the Act on the stopped judicial .
in the most of the case , indeed , these issues should be invisible when he there has rehabilitative .
however , when a human valid his term to a position of confidence and that his file door to believe that he there would a level increased of risk for a category specific of persons vulnerable , a exception is valid .
the ministers of the Justice and the raisers broad federal , provincial and territorial if are all heard on this point during of their meeting in October 1998 .
a group of work of senior officials has examined the means of better protect the children and has submitted ten recommendations in this sense to the ministers responsible .
these ten recommendations have all been adopted and are in considering of be implemented in application .
he has been proposed , between other , that the issues of the offenders sexual having fact the subject of a rehabilitative ensure prominent availability for the filtrage of the candidates to of the positions of confidence .
the Solicitor General of the Canada , with the support of the Minister of the Justice , has undertaken during of the meeting of 1998 of determine the better average of the do in consultation with all his counterparts provincial .
the bill of bill C - 7 was the next step logical .
as I the have fact pointed more earlier , he provides that , when the you Cornillon of the CIPC the file of a offender body following to his rehabilitative , you decide to the place a indicateur .
some say that this legislation will to the conflict of the objective basic of the Act on the stopped judicial and this is a concern serious , well heard .
we want that the system of rehabilitative works well .
however , he if is of a exception circonscrite and limited who , according me , if warranted .
the ministers of the Justice of all the governments have seconded this principle .
if we not take not this legislation , we conscious of suffer the consequences possible of the rehabilitative who help a weighs body to if frayer a path toward a position of confidence deposited of children or of other persons vulnerable .
he will banned by the bill and by the policy of the CIPC of if serve of this Code without Authorized .
he met always obtain the consent of the prohibitions , and this last will always the choice of withdraw his request if he not wish not negotiates his file to the body who welcomes to the filtrage .
for if ensure that the prohibitions is identified with estate , you inform his fingerprints photographed to the request of adjourned of the scell?s on the file described by the rehabilitative .
finally , the Solicitor General need subtly that the disclosure of the stopped is valid .
you pr?cisera the offences purchase who able be pointed therefore that the factors who will took in consideration by the Solicitor General for decide of the desirability of desceller the file .
honourable senators , you you remember can - be that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional has held a very good debate on this who was then the bill of bill C - 69 during and after the appearance of the Solicitor General in June last and to the opportunity of a sitting very culmination in September .
I like highlight the contribution very constructive of the Senator Nolin .
the Committee was particularly interested by the definitions of children and of other persons vulnerable and by the Sites specific of the list of the offences purchase whose he is question in this bill of bill .
I am appropriate that the excellent work of the Committee will useful to the Senate when the Committee chair to new this bill of bill , who is now the bill of bill C - 7 .
he is important of recognize that the bill of bill C - 7 just if add to of the measures already taken by the government for improve the protection of the children .
these provisions view to the recommendation unanimous of the ministers of the provinces and of the territories .
they have received the support unanimous of all the parties to the other place .
they are consistent , I believe , with the concern common that have all the members , similar of do all this who is possible for protect our children and the adults vulnerable of the pr?dateurs sexual who turn to their resulting of the wrong .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , to the behalf of the Senator Nolin , the debate is adjourned . )
the Committee of selection
Adopted of the fourth report
the Senate proceeded to the study of the fourth report of the Committee of selection ( membership of various committees ) , presented to the Term 3 November 99 . - ( Conformity hon. Senator Mercier ) .
the hon. L?once Mercier :
honourable senators , I move the Adopted of this report .
the hon. Fernand Robichaud ( His Hon. the Speaker Acting ) :
honourable senators , you pleasure - he of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
the Canadians eminent and their role to the Kingdom - U
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Anne C . Cools , having given notice the 2 November 99 :
that she call the attention of the Senate on :
has ) the persons valour to the Canada who have sat to the House of the Commons of the Kingdom - U , there including the Tremblay of the Ontario Edward Blake , Minister of the Justice of the Canada of 1875 to 1877 and Leader of the Party Liberal of the Canada of 1880 to 1887 , the Tremblay of the New - Brunswick the very hon. Bonar Law , Prime Minister of the Kingdom - U of 1922 to 1923 , and the Tremblay of the Ontario Sir Bryant Irvine , deputy - chairman of the House of the Commons of the Kingdom - U of 1976 to 1982 ;
b ) the persons valour to the Canada who have sat to the House of the Lords of the Kingdom - U , there including the tr?shon. Richard B . Bennett , Prime Minister of the Canada of 1930 to 1935 , and Lord Beaverbrook , Minister of the Kingdom - U in 1918 and of 1940 to 1942 ;
c ) the Britanniques of birth Regarding to the Kingdom - U or in the dominions and colonies who have sat to the Senate and to the House of the Commons of the Canada , there including the tr?shon. John Turner , Prime Minister in 1984 and Leader of the Opposition Liberal of 1984 to 1990 , and me - even , Senator black in fiscal born in the Antilles British ;
d ) the persons of citizenship Canadian who have fact part of the Council private of the Kingdom - U , there including the first ministers of the Canada , the judges in Leader of the Court Supreme and some ministers Canadian whose the Leader of the government to the Senate of 1921 to 1930 and of 1935 to 1942 , the tr?shon. Senator Raoul Dandurand , who has been appointed to the Council private of the Kingdom - U in 1941 ;
e ) the resolution Nickle of 1919 , a motion of the House of the Commons of the Canada in view of a directed to Majesty Majesty the king George V , and the comments that the Prime Minister R . B . Bennett has held in 1934 to his about :
to this was also inefficient in right that possible .
not only this was inefficient , but this was also , I regret of the say , a affront to the sovereign him - even .
not important what lawyer of right constitutional or anyone if give the worthy of study this question if in makes well account . to ;
f ) the comments that the Prime Minister R . B . Bennett has held in 1934 in a letter to the member J . R . MacNicol :
to as that I resterai citizen of the Raj British and loyalist about of the king , I hear recognize to the sovereign the prerogative of recognize the services of his subjects . to
g ) the many distinguished Canadians who have since 1919 received of the honours of the king or of the Queen of the Canada , there including the Dreadnought to the Order of the chevalerie in 1934 of Sir Lyman Duff , Justice in Leader of the Court Supreme of the Canada , in 1935 of Sir Ernest MacMillan , musicien , in 1986 of Sir Bryant Irvine , Parliamentary , in 1994 of Sir Neil Shaw , industrial , and in 1994 of Sir Conrad Swan , advisor of the Prime Minister Pearson to the about of the flag national of the Canada ;
p.m. ) the many distinguished Canadians who have received 646 honours and astre of souverains foreign not British and not Canadian between 1919 and February 1929 ;
i ) the Position legal and constitutional of the Canadians of birth and of citizenship regarding their ability or their inaptitude to sit to the House of the Lords and or to the House of the Commons of the Kingdom - U , including the Canadians domicili?s to the Kingdom - U and beyond of the double citizenship of the Canada and of the Kingdom - U ;
j ) the Position legal and constitutional of the Canadians domicili?s to the country or to the abroad regarding their right of receive of the honours and of the distinctions of their own sovereign , the Queen Elizabeth II of the Canada , therefore that their right of receive of the honours and of the distinctions of souverains other that the their , there including the sovereign of the France , the honour of the Order Alaska of the Legion of honour ;
problem ) the honours , the distinctions and the astre who not are not h?r?ditaires as the prize to life , the Dreadnought to the Order of the chevalerie and the levels military and of chevalerie ;
l ) the recommendation by the Prime Minister British Tony Blair to Majesty Majesty the Queen Elizabeth II Authorize of appoint as member not h?r?ditaire of the House of the Lords Conrad Black , a distinguished publisher and entrepreneur Canadian and Colonel Honorary of the Governor General' St. Foot Guards of the Canada .
- honourable senators , I addressed today today the link historic and constitutional between the Canada and the Kingdom - U , the systems constitutional and Parliamentary therefore that the citizenship that we share .
he not there has not if long , of my alive , he not there had not of distinction between the citizenship British and the citizenship Canadian , well that the sovereignty of the Canada gave d?coul? of a status particular of dominion .
in as that human black who has seen the day and who has been high until to the age of 13 years to the Barbade , in the Antilles British and who has d?m?nag? to the Canada , I have lived this double experience .
of the years more later , after have including that , as English of origin British alive to the Quebec , I not if never a true Qu?b?coise , I have left the Quebec for the Ontario , this who fact of me a r?fugi?e of home the to endorses laine to .
I believe firmly that the you sape my heritage and that I must the do argue and the defend .
honourable senators , good number of people to the country , there including of the ministers , pr?conisent the dismantling of the monarchy constitutional of the Canada .
I identifies this innocuous constitutional of d?molition of the Canada .
they insofar a called outlawing democratic and popular to the conflict of the aristocratie , but their appeal in favour of the principle of the democracy is superficiel , rhetoric and very transparent .
they arise the absolutisme to the public as if he if 13 of the former absolutisme of the man , all in doing deliberately disregard of the absolutisme present of the Cabinets and of the courts of grant era modern .
these d?molisseurs are in situation of bankrupt independent and moral .
they induisent the public in mistake because that the Canada not has never had of aristocratie or of structure policy aristocratique .
to the difference of this who if is past to the Kingdom - U , the aristocratie not has never fact part of the structure social , economic , military or policy of the Canada .
the Canada , as new peuplement , not has never known of conditions Social who have resulted the creation of structures aristocratiques .
the Canada not has never met the conditions pre to the institution of the principle aristocratique , be the principle h?r?ditaire known in England under the beside of bill of the primog?niture , or poss?d? the structure aristocratique necessary for ensure the protection of the persons and of the property , be the protection of the life and of the freedom assured by the aristocrate to his vassaux in tax of their loyalty and of their services .
to the Kingdom - U , this structure aristocratique and policy has yielding the not to the over of the time to a government with responsibility brief , model that the Canada has adopted soon the beginning of his history by the through of the system of the parties political .
my culture policy if seen of a monarchy constitutional and of the institutions parliamentarians British who have given to the Antilles British the more oldest legislatures legislation of the Alexander of the way way .
these institutions parliamentarians have led to the abolition of the trade of the esclaves in 1807 and to the abolition of the slavery proprement said in 1833 .
the part essential of a government defeated responsible of the Parliament of the Queen is the duty of the cabinet of Majesty Majesty of find , with the confidence of the Parliament , of the solutions political rather that legal , judicial or military to of the problems and to of the conflict human .
the policy is the solution to the most of the problems .
the art of the policy is the more great contribution of our system British .
the policy , this is also recommend and give of the appointments and of the astre political .
honourable senators , the Barbade is a old 1604 whose the Assembly legislative , who has been established in 1639 , is the more former to the outside of the Kingdom Reconstruction
she contrast cleansing with the French Haiti and Cuba the Ferdinand , who are all two of the republics and all two of the colonies not British .
I am very surprisingly to the Parliament of the Queen and not want of no institution r?publicaine for the Canada .
I not love not that the you move of do of the Canada a r?publique .
I me there opposerai always , as I have distrust of the do .
the Canadians not are not least free or least independent that the citizens of not important what r?publique .
this is a real tragedy that of the schools , of the institutions political and , particularly , of many politicians deny of preserve the wonderful heritage constitutional of the Canada .
some have said that this was deplorable for a country .
honourable senators , I in just now to the prerogative of the Queen relatively to the service who introducing to Crowshoe of the reconnaissances , of the honours , of the distinctions and of the 1993 .
this is the former prerogative of the souverains that of Crowshoe of the honours to their subjects .
inversement , the citizens - the Canadians , in the actions - have the right of receive of the honours of the share of their Sovereign .
in addition , the Canadians who resident in of other country have the right of be privileged by the sovereign of these country .
in case of duplicates sovereignty and citizenship , these Canadians have right to these benefits .
that is vital in this era of globalization , that the policy foreign of our government has seconded drew .
the desire of the human of be privileged by of other human for of the accomplishments community , such that he is expressed by a recognition of the sovereign , is powerful , calling and important .
all those who if are distinguished on the scene policy , in the industry , in the Arts , in the community , in the service military , by of the actions of bravery and in all the aspects of the service public shared this desire universal of the human of not do that a with his brothers and kindred human .
such is the prerogative Royal , who commit to protect this aspect of the nature human and to the command .
our Sovereign indications a relationship special with each of his subjects .
all about , in under of this relationship special , has right to the justice , to the indulgence , to the recognition , to the protection and to the peace of the Queen .
this is this that indicates the lexique .
this right broadsides of this relationship special between the Queen and each of his subjects .
this relationship is creations and profoundly personal because that she is ancr?e in a belief and a ideal who if Order God , the Queen and the nation .
honourable senators , excusez - me if I not have not fact of distinction between to endorses ambition human to , to avidit? to and need human of approval by his Sovereign , the Source of the distinctions for the contributions to the well common .
I wanted say d?sirs honourable for of the honours .
honourable senators , I speak now of the resolution Nickle , who has been proposed by William Folger Nickle , member Conservative of Kingston , and agreed to the House of the Commons the 22 May 1919 .
this motion , a motion of the House of the Commons only if ability to Majesty Majesty George V , not has never been Before to the agr?ment of the Senate .
the reasons political are clear and evident .
she would been without no doubt battue to platform couture because that the senators number soon before his latitude policy and constitutional .
in addition , she if rallies to Majesty Majesty , and not to the Governor General of the Canada , who was then the Edinburgh of Devonshire .
she asked to Majesty Majesty of not not honour of the Canadians and if Athens , in substance , as following :
we [ ... [ scenes humbly Your Majesty , advisable that he him please :
has ) of if alone now of conferring of the 1993 of honour or of distinction to someone a of your subjects domicili?s or resident of plain to the Canada [ ... [
b ) that she particulars the measures necessary , legislation or other , for ensure the gerrymandering of the 1993 , dignit?s , distinctions - similar of fine of the blind by example - to the Late of a human currently domicili?e to the Canada or having his residence usual then that she removes of a payments Doctorate h?r?ditaire [ ... [
honourable senators , ten years more later , in 1929 , the Commons have held a other debate on the resolution Nickle .
the 12 February 1929 , Charles Cahan , member Conservative , has proposed that be set a Committee Special of the House for do inquiry and report on the desirability of happen , amend or rescinder the directed Nickle agreed the 22 May 1919 .
the Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King had said in this debate , as the collected the Debates of the House of the Commons of this day - there to the page 78 :
if we vote of not not have of 1993 Doctorates , of plight of distinction or of astre to the Canada , hurt cop to the principle and not in news not of the all ; abolissons - the completely ; but if the souverains or the leaders of other States are authorized to Crowshoe of the honours to of the Canadians , I believe , further to me , that we must to our own sovereign of him give this prerogative before all the other .
the results of the vote took the 14 February on the motion Mr. Cahan indicate that the Prime Minister King and the Leader of the Opposition conservatrice , Mr. Richard B . Bennett , had all two voted Right .
... the government of Majesty Majesty of the Canada is of notice that the motion regarding the 1993 Doctorates agreed the 22 May 1919 , by a vote of the majority of the House of the Commons of the thirteenth Parliament ( who was dissousle 4 October 1921 ) not makes plans Majesty Majesty or the government of Majesty Majesty to the Canada , or the ten - seventeenth Parliament of the Canada .
in of other words , the text request to the sovereign , by the average of a resolution of the House of the Commons , of stop of exercise his prerogative to the Canada .
no group of words not could have least of effect , in right .
not only he not had no effect , but , I regret of have to the see , he component a injure to the sovereign even .
to the about of his efforts in view of back in force the recommendations to Majesty Majesty regarding the list of the astre , the Prime Minister , in the even speech , has added follows , to the page 96 of the Hansard of the Commons :
this is there the act of the Prime Minister ; he must in assume the responsibility ; he must also take on him the responsibility of have informed the Crown that the resolution agreed by the House of the Commons is invalide and of none effect in this who problems the prerogative of the sovereign .
hence who is expectation clear to my eyes .
honourable senators , to my notice , all distinguished Canadian who is pressenti for be appointed to the House of the Lords of the Kingdom - U or all Canadian pressenti by Majesty Majesty the Queen for a recognition whatever fact honour to the Canada .
each time that a Canadian is honoured , this is a great honour for me .
this is a great honour for we all .
the Canada in resort grew .
I in just now Mr. Conrad Black .
honourable senators , recently , you has used the words to Lord Almost to and to Lord Nearly Nearly to for d?crireM. Conrad Black .
I know do the distinction between this who is good and this who is ridiculous .
I know do the distinction between a criticism honest and a criticism demeaning .
because Mr. Black is a man rich , some find good of the cover of contempt as if he was cites .
I believe Mr. Conrad Black is a great and distinguished Canadian .
the world Mr. Black not is not the hall .
this not is not a world in which I have worked .
his world is extend of the high funding where the you takes of huge risks financial - the world of the entrepreneuriat , of the competition , of the trade and of the production of newspapers .
this is a world that I respect , even if I not there am not directly m?l?e .
I am a Liberal - a Liberal to the sense classic of the 19 century .
the lib?ralisme me has learned to meet the persons who persons the makes necessary for create the hampered and of the jobs for of other people .
the lib?ralisme me has learned that the employment of persons by the business privacy by Opposition to the sector public is the true legislation of the hampered economic of a community .
honourable senators , of jump have believed that the more great contribution to the world that had In the lib?ralisme , in as that principle policy , was the concept that the hampered could be created and shared by all and each - that the creation of the hampered and the fact of the stature not were not subject to the principle of the h?r?dit? , but rather to the ability , the spirit of initiative , the energy and the effort of each be human .
the parcours Mr. Black , who is born in a environment modest , represents a elation for the lib?ralisme and the principle Liberal .
of even , the lib?ralisme , by Opposition to the let - do , sold that the governments speaks on the markets not only for protect the life , the integrity and the competition , but also for give a net of security social to the workers .
Mr. . Black has created of the employment for of the thousands of Canadians , this whose little of people can if boasting .
I respect that .
he has also licences that he there gave of the competition on the market of the newspapers to the Canada .
I am of notice that this is a honour for the Canada if the Prime Minister Tony Blair , of the Kingdom - U , has recommended the appointment Mr. Black to the House of the Lords , to payments of fine and of Lord not h?r?ditaire .
he is regrettable that the Prime Minister Blair gave withdrawn his recommendation and I hope that he songera soon to circumstance the recommendation Mr. Black .
his Hon. the Speaker Acting :
Senator Cools , I must you attention that the period of time who you is granted for do your statement is past .
however , you 53,000 continue if you in asking the Authorized and that similar - side you is granted .
the Senator Cools :
thank , Your Hon. .
I like have the Authorized of continue .
his Hon. the Speaker Acting :
the Authorized is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Cools :
thank , honourable senators .
the barons of the press Lord Thompson bearer Black doing all the two honour to the Canada , all as the former Prime Minister John Turner .
they witnessing all of the trade who , during of the centuries , have licences to of the Canadians and to of the Britanniques , whose me - even , white and black , of sit in the two Houses of the Parliament , to the Canada and Kingdom Reconstruction
honourable senators , the attitudes and the misgivings human are myst?rieuses , all as the fragilit? human .
that fact part of the condition human .
the spirit human is a roublard and the motivator his strings .
this pleasant of the condition human me has been slaughterhouse of way poignante in a section on the confidence and the m?chancet? Mr. Nickle , who has been prepared by a member of his family , James Travers .
in a section The in the edition of the 14 September 99 of the Toronto Star and who spoke of the battle Mr. Black for the allocations of the payments of fine , Mr. Travers wrote :
in a access of despite and in the absence of the Prime Minister of the then , Robert Border , Nickle has presented to any steamship his resolution to the House of the Commons after have failed to do conferring the payments of Knight to Daniel Denise , the Pritchard of the University Queen St. and his fine - father ...
for if venger , Nickle has wanted if ensure that of other not could not obtain this that you had refused to his family .
his resolution Requesting that the king if abstienne of Crowshoe of the 1993 to of the residents Canadian has been agreed by any the House emport?e by the opinion public that he not partageait not .
the tricherie of Nickle is the because of a sure embarrassment in the family , since W . F . Nickle was the fine - father of the s9ur of my great - mother .
the hon. Joan Fraser :
honourable senators , I have a question to ask and , if the Senator Cools me the allows , a rectification to contribute .
I not think not that anyone can deny the accomplishments Mr. Black in the field of the edition .
however , if you ?tudiez the States financial of the businesses that he control , you find that the number of jobs has decreased and not increased in the newspapers that he control , since that he in has fact the acquisition .
my question respect the nature of the distinctions that , of after the Senator , he would appropriate that of the Canadians quotes of the share of governments foreign .
he there has a difference between the distinctions admires Doctorates , as the payments of Knight or the Legion of honour , and those who doing of extend who the receives a l?gislateur of a country abroad .
the House of the Lords is a Assembly legislative .
she not has can - be not many of power that our Senate , but we are recognize well control for know that this not is not a something futile that of be l?gislateur .
the hon. Senator seen - she a difference between the two types of distinction and believe she that he there has held of the consider differently , met given that a cinquantaine of years have past since that a human active in the sector Canadian of the media has agreed the dignity of fine ?
I attention by example Mr. Kenneth Thompson has felt rodents of repeating the payments of his father to the Late of Lord Thompson .
the Senator Cools :
I thank the hon. Senator of his question .
in this who respect the honours and the governments foreign , I wish to clarify that I not consider not the Queen of England as a government abroad .
I not floor too insist there - above .
she is the Queen of the Canada , my Queen .
when I have fact my entry to the Senate in 1984 , after have been escort?e the long of this processes , I have developed the labour on the Bible and I have join oath , and this is to this Queen that I have join the oath of allegiance .
the Queen of the Canada not is not a government abroad .
I have can - be difficulty before the comments of the hon. Senator .
if this is the case , I him floor grateful of contribute of other Particulars .
of the honours are Duty all the time .
he there has of the Canadians who sit in of the legislatures legislation across in the world .
the hon. Senator if recall surely of a meeting of the IPU , to which we have attended all the two he there has few months , and where I have met of the citizens Canadian who sit to of the legislatures legislation of some country baltes , I believe .
the House of the Lords is a Parliament , not a Assembly legislative , and he there has a enormous difference between a Assembly legislative and a Parliament .
the House of the Lords is a old institution .
she is a of the more ancient of the world .
this is can - be because that many of my friends families have sat to the House of the Lords , but I appartiens to the group of the Canadians who little many of respect for this House .
you me has unequal , when I was small daughter , to the Barbade , that when all the rest had failed , he former always the possible of in call to the House of the Lords .
I not involved not to the movement who like that the you convey away to brief completed the Houses high , there including the House of the Lords .
finally , for this who is of the honours , I pretend that they are countless .
he there has of the honours who clauses of the 1993 and of other not .
he there has of the honours who duplication of the precedents , of other not .
he there has of the honours who clauses a rank , of other not .
he there has any a range of honours .
I invite the Senator to if insist to me for grave a proposal Authorize on the study of the 1993 Doctorates and the Eligibility of the Canadians to these 1993 .
in this era modern where the you authority of the 1993 h?r?ditaires , I not think not that Majesty Majesty authority too of 1993 h?r?ditaires to the Canada .
I not have not succeeded to in find of new .
I have enumerated a number countless of 1993 of chevaliers in my remarks .
the examples who me are immediately came to the spirit are clearly Lord Thompson him - even and , well heard , the former - Prime Minister of the Canada , Mr. R . B . Bennett , who , as we the know , has been appointed vicomte in 1941 .
clearly , you embrouille the things .
the fact is Mr. Black has been recommended for the prize to life and he if is , according me , of a calling aspiration .
( on the motion of the Senator LeBreton , the debate is adjourned . )
Affairs foreign
Authorized to the Committee of clerical of the services
the hon. John B . Stewart , pursuant to the notice 2 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , personnel , employees of office or other elements necessary for examine the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have been An .
( the motion is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee of do according his deliberations by the media of information electronic
the hon. John B . Stewart , pursuant to the notice 2 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign be authorized to allow the meaning of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate if adjourned to the Tuesday 16 November 99 , to 14 p.m. . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 7
the Tuesday 16 November 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
' ' '
the Act of 1968 amend the right p?nal
the trenti?me anniversary of his Adopted
the Reverend father Emile Shoufani
the group of expert on the access to the data historic of the census
the Act on the languages official
the trenti?me anniversary of his proclamation
the program of Exchange of pages with the House of the Commons
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
the budget of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
Tabled of the budget Supplementary ( A )
the community francophones and acadiennes outside Quebec
Tabled of the report on the deteriorating of the services in French
the adjournment
the budget of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
notice of motion Authorize the Committee of the Finance national to study the budget Supplementary ( A )
notice of motion Authorize referred of the credit 25a to the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official
notice of motion Authorize referred of the credit 10a to the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament
Affairs foreign
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to until the date of Tabled of his report final on the amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Solicitor General
the Service Canadian of the Intelligence of security - Position loss of documents classifi?s - Conformity review of the Committee of monitoring of the activities of the Intelligence of security
the justice
the possible of protect more the people against the violence
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Position possible of a program of credit agricultural
the Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural - Conformity effectiveness of the program
the effectiveness of the programs of assistance - Position survival of the young farmers
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Conformity Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural - Changes are paid to the claimants
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Request of visit of the Prime Minister
the environment
the Nova - Nova - Position responsibility of the timetables of the sites of wastes toxic - Request of response
the Defence national
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King - Position possible of the credit - lease - Request of response
Questions delayed to of the questions Oral
the Defence national
the West Scotia Regiment - Position appointment of a Colonel Honorary
the Affairs foreign
the new ambassador deposited of the Organization World of the trade - Position possible of a contract of consultation with the employer of the former ambassador - Request of Tabled of documents
the Nations overseeing
the disarmament nuclear - Position policy of the government opposite to the resolution of the New Agenda Coalition
the development of the resources human
the efforts Process for increase the representation of the minorities visible
Order OF orders
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading - Continued of the debate
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in implement of conventions tax
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the speech of the seated
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Continued of the debate
bill of bill on the Assent Royal
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the communities francophones and acadiennes outside Quebec
the deteriorating of the services in French - Inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
the SENATE
the Tuesday 16 November 99
the sitting is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker met to the Chair .
prayers .
the Act of 1968 amend the right p?nal
the trenti?me anniversary of his Adopted
the hon. Lucie pin :
honourable senators , that the Canadians and the delay in ensure aware or not , the Adopted , the 14 May 1969 , of the Act of 1968 amend the right p?nal , who l?gif?rait on the contraception and the abortion procedure , has irr?vocablement changed our lives .
the complications during the accouchements not were not few , and only the case the more serious if terminaient by a trajet on the fortune front of the voiture of the doctor until to the Hospital the more poised and often , he was too later for save the b?b? or for allowed a c?sarienne .
who needed - he save , the b?b? or the mother ?
the state also was strong clear : the contraception was ill?gale , of even that the abortion .
opposite to the state and to the church , the women not had no choice .
for many of between we who incident in gyn?co - obst?trique , the quo quo was became unbearable and we have decided of work in favour of the change for give to the women the accessibility to the contraception .
the bill of bill C - 150 , more known under the behalf of to bill of bill omnibus to , has been adopted in 1969 .
he has accomplished well of the things for a myriad of people .
for repeating the expression of the former Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau , he has underway the process revert to bouter the state outside of the Houses to stay of the people .
the meritorious sexual , the choice of practices of reproductive and the ?bats amoureux were therefore footnotes to the field private , to condition that that if convey between adults consentants .
for the women , the prospects open were afraid more major .
he was now possible of do of the choice .
the women acqu?raient finally a minimum of control on their own life , which not if reduced more to a series attainable of grossesses , of risks for the health and of children too many for their capabilities financial .
this new freedom has served of springboard for the many other freedoms and options who have amended the role of the women in our society : the believe of itself , the education , the employment , a Senators to the chapter and the accountability .
honourable senators , I am very proud of have could participate to this process and of have could see the real changes who if are op?r?s through to our efforts - efforts who vigorously to the time if manmade and if necessary .
he if is there of a of the businesses the more important of my life .
more important still , this anniversary proves a time of more that the change is possible , that the people can amend of the things in the life of resource and that the determination and the passion can do of the snow .
celebrate therefore and resource tribute to all the citizens who have worked to the ?closion of the freedoms fully of the bill of bill C - 150 .
the Reverend father Emile Shoufani
the hon. Pierre De De :
honourable senators , I have the honour of you do share of the visit recent to the Canada , 10 to the 25 October , of the Reverend father Emile Shoufani , steering of the Seminar St. - Joseph and of the school school of Nazareth , and cur? of Nazareth , in Israel .
the father Shoufani , famili?rement called Abouna Emile by all , be to father Emile to in Arab , is a man and a priest profoundly committed in his church , the church melkite vowels Catholic , in his community Arab and in his country , Israel .
the father Shoufani was to the Canada the guest of the Centre of action volunteer ?milie Gamelin of Joliette , who had organized a forum international on to the unwelcome of the life and the ageing to , convention who has drew a assembled many and who has been a great success to all ways .
I like also thank the members of the clerg? , who not have physically no effort for that this visit be couronn?ede success .
during his visit to the Canada , the father Shoufani has had of the talks approfondis with a if great number of personalities that he me is impossible of the appoint all .
I me limiterai to mention the meetings with the personalities following : the Prime Minister of the Canada , the very hon. Jean tien , the Speaker of the Senate , the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , the Minister of the Affairs foreign , the hon. Lloyd Axworthy , the senior officials of the Council private , be the Department of the Prime Minister , therefore that the diplomats of the Department of the Affairs foreign responsible of the Middle - East .
the father Shoufani has also sir several conferences on the situation to the Middle - East , including before the Middle East Discussion Group , here even to the Parliament , therefore that before the Council of the relations international of Montreal .
he has also spoken of the subjects proprement church , including on to the future common of the Christian , of the musulmans and of the Jews to , to the University St. - Paul of Ottawa and before the community of Madonna House to Combermere , in Ontario , where he has met the former Archbishop of Galil?e , Mgr Joseph Raya , a man startling that I admire greatly .
the father Shoufani has also met the Archbishop of St. - Boniface , Mgr Antoine Hacault , therefore that the ?v?que of Joliette , Mgr Gilles Lussier .
the a of the times the more ?mouvants has without no doubt been the meeting of the father Shoufani with the very P Elliott Trudeau , the former Prime Minister of the Canada , who has domin? the scene policy of our country during as of years .
this meeting has had held to the time o?M. Trudeau performs ses80 years .
the father Shoufani not has unceasingly of work to r?concilier and to insist all the citizens of his country , Israel .
also has he met in our country a great number of Canadians of origin Arab , particularly those of Montreal and of Ottawa .
he has also met several personalities crowned of the community Jewish Canadian , therefore that the Congress Jewish , branch of the Quebec , and he has realized visit to the school s?farade of language French of Montreal , the school Maimonide .
this that I find the more admirable home the father Shoufani , this is that his deep respect for the life not can be dissoci? of his conviction according which we must we strive of improve the fate of all the beings human and that human not has the right of mete of the suffering to the other .
the approach positive of the father Shoufani in Equity of regulation of the problems is remarkable .
extend - side is always prepared to do the Prime not .
he if reducing always of understand the dreams and the ideas of the other and of appreciation of the empathy to their regard .
his Hon. the Speaker :
Senator De De , your three minutes are period .
asking - you the Authorized of continue ?
the Senator De De :
yes .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the Authorized is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator De De :
honourable senators , Emile Shoufani is born to Nazareth in 1947 .
in as that redemption of origin Arab in the state of Israel , Emile Shoufani has past 52 years to show , in his life and his work , that he is possible of put a term to of the centuries of Opposition and of violence .
his life is a testament to the coexisting peaceful of the Jews , of the Arabes , of the musulmans and of the Christian in a region who has desperately need of a model of peace and of reconciliation .
Emile Shoufani has learned by the through of tragedies personal the sense real of the shirts and of the respect for the other .
he is a model for all .
his great - father and his uncle have been killed during the War of 1948 , during of the d?portation of villageois to Eilabun .
his great - mother , who has lost his husband and a son , has unequal the shirts to his small - son .
he has grew to the within of the minority Arab who is computer in the new state of Israel .
the difficulties experienced he has should do opposite to the during of this period of his life have unequal to Emile that the humility is a under , but not the poverty .
kidnapped during his tumultuous to the Seminar St. - Joseph , Emile prit profoundly conscience of the value of the life all in ressentant the need of do a difference .
he d?cida of become priest .
then that he vivait to Paris , of 1964 to 1971 , to the following of his studies in philosophical and covetousness , Emile Shoufani has read Treblinka , by Jean - Fran?ois Steiner .
that the has led to in learn more on the Holocaust , to visit Dachau and he is income home him after have suffering a changing spiritual , in having a point of view all to fact different .
ordered priest of the church Catholic vowels in 1971 , he has said follows in his Prime sermon :
very earlier to the during of his Department , in as that pasteur of various villages of Galil?e , Abouna Emile is became known as a m?diateur , not only for the regulation of the differences between the communities religious Christian , mulsumane and druze , but in as that defender advocate of a real coexisting revert not simply to live Coast to Coast , but to really share a life common .
when the ?v?que him has children the leadership of the Seminar and school school St. - Joseph , in 1976 , Abouna Emile if was already win the confidence of all the people of the region .
the fact that of many parents of many communities religious him confient their child shows the magnitude of the confidence and of the respect that he if is win in these unequal .
in 1976 , the Seminar St. - Joseph had 200 students and was on the point of close .
the father Emile has decided of met the challenge , of try of maintain the school met with a showing stipulates by his faith .
he has tried of enable two objectives .
he if 13 all of first of vigorous of St. - Joseph a school of first class tour toward the excellence .
he has then sensibilis? a new generation of students to their stories and identit?s separate , all in obtenant of their share a commitment total to the regard of their integration to the state of Israel .
his first battle has consist? to draw a staff qualified and dynamic partageant his vision according which the school must not only ?duquer , but also expand any the human , to the 12 in as that human way to the Prime plan to .
his second achievement r?volutionnaire has consist? to Base the school in a institution Joint open to all the religions , to the two sexes and to different crops .
according him :
St. - Joseph not is not a school Christian who accept the musulmans and the druzes , but a school where the Christian , the musulmans and the druzes live together .
of together with the body professoral , Emile Shoufani wanted constantly to achieve of the standards of education high .
following this that said the father Shoufani :
we must ably the 20 100,000 to 30 100,000 academic Arab whose the country has need .
ten years more later , the school is in legislation of support the competition of the best schools in Israel .
today today , the school account 1 200 students and , each year , of 120 ?130 students of the two sexes receive their diploma .
Emile Shoufani applaud always the even dynamism r?volutionnaire that he there has 24 years .
he continues of if preoccupied of the appointments to the force and to the board of Administration of the school .
in 1989 , after have established the points strong and the reputation of the school on the plan school , the father Emile has decided of if spend to his second objective , be a bill - pilot of dialogue with the to Lyada to , a school Jewish of Prime plan relevant of the university Hebrew of Jerusalem , order of to give to our young the tools whose they have need for ensure their full integration in the state of Israel all in conservant their identity . to
today today , the mission of the Seminar St. - Joseph introducing to ensure grant to education to the service of the peace to .
the father Shoufani has said often :
I believe 3.2 to this country to the history long and vari?e , in quality of Arabe , of redemption and of Isra?lien .
these differences not me pose not of problems .
through to my faith , I have a vision Universal me allowing of transcender the limits ability and of better listen my brothers .
in ending , I add that the father Shoufani was informed during his visit in our country by Ms Soad Haddad , that I have the privilege of know since more of ten years . Ms
Soad Haddad is remarkable in the legislation where , many that she can if remember , she has always revived that she ruling more to the great community human that to a family particular .
the existence has always been for she linked to the sense of be in mission .
this is this who the has her to if covering completely order of if spend to his tasks current .
she working Coast to Coast with the father Emile since more of 20 years to the service of the church melkite and of the community Arab of the state of Israel .
follows said , honourable senators , we have essentially two options .
the a is of insist on the differences between the beings human , this who is easy .
we can see to what conflict tragic that has led .
the other , to the contrary , is of put the focus on this who closest the people of different groups socio?conomiques , of religions separate and to the history different .
this is many more difficult .
however , this is without no doubt the option the more generous , the better reflects to the time modern and similar for which all the people well yesterday should if fight .
this is the seaway that the parents of the father Shoufani him have enseign?e , similar who the has guided all to the long of his life .
he is rare of meet a man as the father Shoufani , fresher of a such vision and of a such courage .
this was a great honour for me , who am born in of country , of the participating therefore that his tireless , the very promote Ms Soad Haddad , during their visit to the Canada .
the group of expert on the access to the data historic of the census
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the great happy of draw the attention of this House on a announcement made recently by the hon. John Manley , Minister of the Industry and Minister responsible of Statistics Canada .
Friday last , the Minister Manley has announced the creation of a group of expert on the access to the data historic of the census .
the group in question will report to the Minister of here the 31 May 2000 and recommend a approach allowing of establish a fair environment between the need of protect the life privacy and the requests of access of the archivists , historians and disquieting to the data historic of census .
as the honourable senators the know , I have fact pressure to the Parliament in this sense he there has now more of a year .
I am aspects that the Minister gave adopted a approach achieving to the regard of this question and gave appointed a group of expert composed of five persons sensitivity respected , whose our former colleague , the hon. Lorna Marsden .
he is to hope that this group find of the means innovative for succeed a happy compromise between the imperatives of the protection of the life privacy and those of the maltreatment of the heritage Canadian .
the Minister Manley has been sensitive to my representations ; he has took good note of the correspondence of the archivists , historians and disquieting Canadian , and he just of take the first provisions for answer to our concerns , including in incorporate this group .
this is there the evolved of the work accomplished by the associations of historians and of archivists who have sensibilis? the opinion public to the question and him have licences of express his notice .
I am impatiente of take knowledge of the report that this group we appear to the new year .
the Act on the languages official
the trenti?me anniversary of his proclamation
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , I like highlight the trenti?me anniversary of the Act on the languages official , whose the proclamation has had held the 1 July 1969 .
this bill , who is seconded by a great majority of Canadians , has licences of accomplish of the progress to the within of the service public in this who has relates to the language of services and to the representation equitable .
he must however recognize that he we rest many of path to launched in this who has relates to the language of work .
he me must highlight , for explain the success of the bill , the contribution important of the Commissariat to the languages official , of the commissioners who if there are succeeded and of the Committee Joint Standing on the languages official of the House of the Commons and of the Senate .
I request to all the Canadians of continue to meet this extraordinary characteristic of the country that is the duality linguistic .
the Act on the languages official authority to the English and to the French their status , their rights and privileges in as that languages of the Parliament and of the government of the Canada .
the provinces are invit?es to be percentage others the minority linguistic .
few - concerns the doing of good grateful , of other if doing learn the kicking .
I am well aware of the new efforts who must be undertaken for maintain the equity linguistic across to the country and this , in the spirit and the letter of the bill and , particularly , in the respect of the laws who we cover .
the program of Exchange of pages with the House of the Commons
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , before of move to the next question placed to the Order of the day , I like you present the pages who have b?n?fici? of the program of Exchange of pages and who we come of the House of the Commons .
Rachelle B?dard studying in Science political to the Faculty of the Science Social of the University of Ottawa .
she is native of Gatineau , to the Quebec .
marie - Claire Raymond is placed of Penetanguishene , in Ontario .
marie - Claire continues of the studies to the Faculty of Science Social of the University of Ottawa and account if sp?cialiser in Science policy and in monarch .
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
the budget of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
Tabled of the budget Supplementary ( A )
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) tabled the Estimates Supplementary ( A ) for the fiscal if ending the 31 March 2000 .
the community francophones and acadiennes outside Quebec
Tabled of the report on the deteriorating of the services in French
the hon. Jean - Maurice Simard :
honourable senators , I like table the report who fact state of the structure who prevails currently opposite - to - opposite the development and the healthy of the communities francophones and acadiennes , of the deteriorating step , of the d?sengagement of the governments to the during of the 10 past years and of the loss of accessibility of the services in French .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I not can not accept the Tabled of a document of a Senator to least of a consent unanimous of the share of the Senate .
is - this that he there has consent unanimous ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the adjournment
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the section 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate if adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until to tomorrow , the Wednesday 17 November 99 , to 13 p.m. 30 .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the budget of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
notice of motion Authorize the Committee of the Finance national to study the budget Supplementary ( A )
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the mercredi17 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national be authorized to study , order of in do report , the Estimates set in the Estimates Supplementary ( A ) for the fiscal if ending the 31 March 2000 , to the exception of the credit 10a of the Parliament and of the credit 25a of the Council private .
notice of motion Authorize referred of the credit 25a to the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) f ) of the Rules , I move :
that the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official be authorized to study the Estimates set to the credit 25a of the Council private content in the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) , for the fiscal if ending the 31 March 2000 ; and
that a message be Message to the House of the Commons for the in inform .
notice of motion Authorize referred of the credit 10a to the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the mercredi17 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament be authorized to study the Estimates set to the credit 10a of the Parliament content in the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) for the fiscal if ending the 31 March 2000 ; and
that a message be Message to the House of the Commons for the in inform .
Affairs foreign
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to until the date of Tabled of his report final on the amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
the hon. John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Wednesday 17 November 99 , I move :
that , by derogation to the Order adopted by the Senate the Thursday 14 October 99 , the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign , authorized to examine for in do report the ramifications for the Canada : 1 ) . of the amendment embraced to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North ( NATO ) and to the role of the Canada in the NATO since the disbanding of the alliance of Warsaw , of the end of the War Cold and of the entry recent in the NATO of the Hungarian , of the Poland and of the Republic tch?que ; and 2 ) . of the keeping of the peace , particularly the ability of the Canada of there participate under the auspices of not important what body international whose the Canada fact part , be authorized to present his report final to the more later the 15 December 99 ; and
that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the Electronic of the results of his study contained in his report final , and this until to the 24 December 99 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices usual , to table his report deposited of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be reputation have been tabled to the Senate .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Solicitor General
the Service Canadian of the Intelligence of security - Position loss of documents classifi?s - Conformity review of the Committee of monitoring of the activities of the Intelligence of security
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I have a question to the intention of the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the media across to the Canada have reported a unfortunate incident whose had been victim a agente of the SCRS who had left a document to uniqueness secret on the fortune front of his voiture then that she oblige to a part of hockey to Toronto .
the Minister could - he we say what was the rating of security surprisingly to this document ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank the hon. Senator of this question .
he has course been brought to the knowledge of the public by the media , and by the following confirmed by the Minister to the House of the Commons , that a manquement enough serious to the protocol of security had been committed by a used of the SCRS .
the leadership of the SCRS examine currently this case .
further to the rating of security surprisingly to the document in question , I raise determine if I then obtain this information for the hon. Senator .
the Senator Kinsella :
I thank the hon. Senator of if Services to the do .
he if is of know if this document was very secret , secret or posterity .
the Parliament has institu? the Committee of monitoring of the activities of the Intelligence of security .
the Parliament has given to this Committee Civil the mandate legal of monitor the activities of the SCRS .
is - he true that this is only by the seaway of the newspapers that the chairman of the CSARS has heard speak of this manquement , then that the Solicitor General in had had knowledge since a sure time - before even that the newspapers not in actually state ?
the Senator Boudreau :
the honourable senators understand that I not floor not normally how the inspecteur General of the SCRS has been developed to the aware of this case , or how the CSARS the has been .
however , the Minister has said to the other place that he in had been informed he there has two or three weeks .
I think that he is enough clear that the CSARS in has been informed someone time more later .
in fact , I then say to the honourable senators that the SCRS and the inspecteur General of the SCRS doing inquiry in this case to the time where I you talking .
of more , the CSARS has him also undertaken a review to this regard of his own initiative .
as the honourable senators , I am anxious of obtain a report to this about , and I happy happy of in do know the details .
the hon. Jean - Claude Rivest :
the Minister could - he we say if he there a rule of the services Disclosure further to the handling of the documents ?
is - this that a human or a officer can all simply if tour with of the documents ?
there he a procedure who not would presumably not been followed in this case ?
the Minister we said that the government federal essayera of do inquiry for see exactly this who if is past .
the Minister can - he be more enable further to the nature of the inquiry to come opposite to this malencontreux incident ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , he is obvious that he there has had offence to the security .
the human in question will Before to a inquiry research to the time by the SCRS and by the CSARS .
as must the know the hon. Senator , the CSARS is the Committee independent of monitoring unto who has undertaken this task .
I am sure that these two agencies if jobs of their responsibilities with any the expeditiously and the speed The and that they poisoned a report more detailed of the events who if are products .
the Senator Rivest :
honourable senators , course , he there has of the inconv?nients on the plan Economy .
the Canada and the Service Canadian of the Intelligence of security To with of very many country to across the world .
the Minister and the government are - they aware that this incident risk of entacher very seriously the credibility of the services Disclosure Canadian ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , fortunately , this incident seems be isolated .
well that he be regrettable and that you not can deny the serious of these events , I hope that they not discuss not of impact sensibles on our relations with the other country , particularly our allies .
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , the Minister could - he we say why he has onerous two weeks sacrifice to the Solicitor General for prevent the Committee who , according the Minister , will now do inquiry on this case ?
why expect two weeks ?
not there has he not a sense of responsibility in the spirit of the whipped when they are developed to the aware of a case as similar - side ?
the Parliament has created a Committee responsible of investigate on this kind of situation and yet the Department of the Solicitor General has left tra?ner the things during two weeks sacrifice .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I can nothing say of precise on the question of the soon because I not know not exactly when the information has been remaining .
however , I believe understand that the inspecteur General of the SCRS has immediately took the case in labour and if in nat as he the must .
the role of the is of investigate on of the activities as those that exhibition the inspecteur General in the framework of this case .
I not know not exactly to what time the CSARS interviendrait .
the hon. Roch Bolduc :
honourable senators , he there has few years , we have had of the problems following to a identifies of the budget of the Minister of the Finance .
finally , all the world was to the aware and the Minister has should deal a speech quick .
there has he a procedure government who assure the confidentiality of the documents ?
if he there a procedure , has she several degrees of quality ?
by example , we know all that the budget of the Minister of the Finance and the questions of security national are very Disclosure .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am sure that he there various classifications of security for the documents of the SCRS .
I not known not in detail all the levels of security , but I bring of my better for obtain this Intelligence for the Senator .
the Senator Bolduc :
honourable senators , I will return to the reminder because that recently , we we are left say , to the about of the transactions with the Americans in Equity of Defence , that we were more or least fiables .
the Americans not farm more transiger with we and we give some licences for of the equipment for the Defence because that we gone the reputation of not be not enough fiables .
this is disassociate of if do say that by our neighbours , particularly when we involvement with them of good relations in General .
the Minister could - he bringing to the attention of the Minister of the Defence national this question of the more high importance ?
we must do someone something to this about because you can imagine that a such case not assistance not the relations between our two country .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am all to fact prepared to convey the concerns of the senators further to the nature of this incident .
I Dolly the importance that overwhelmingly the senators to this unwitting series of events .
however , I not am not sure of share the notice expressed by the hon. Senator in the preamble of his question .
the question of the ITAR fact part of a category different .
he is certainly disturbing of see that a information or a document sufficient not is not manipul? with all the precautions necessary as this was the case for this document .
a inquiry is in during , research to the time by the SCRS to the Economy and by the CSARS .
I am sure that the measures corrective who if impose will taken and that the human in because will handled of way appropriate .
the justice
the possible of protect more the people against the violence
the hon. Herbert O . Sparrow :
honourable senators , I have a question to ask to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the Canadians of all the country are concerned by the violence who has during between the young .
a other concern is implementation in obviously by a section who has been released recently by a newspaper of Vancouver on the fact that a other case of saucissonnage in British - British had cost the life to a lady citizen .
he seems that these persons not can nothing do for if protect against these crimes .
I not wish not to raise the question of the control of the weapons to gun , but he was a time where the community agricultural if prot?geait to the average of fusils of hunting .
you not if attaquait not to the farmers of afraid of be offence .
the Code criminal banned of if serve of brouillard of poivre for if protect .
the population of the communities rural and , now , the population of the regions urban not have not of other means of if protect and they are absolutely terrifi?s by all these stories of saucissonnage , of effraction , of rape and of murder whose they legalities speak .
if the Minister not knows not the file for the moment , can - be could - he in discuss with his colleagues , including the Minister of the Justice .
of the measures are - they in preparedness , who could help the persons whose you Vision the pleasant to if protect they - same ?
well of the people not have not the means of entourer their ownership of cl?tures or of have of the guard of security .
these persons are left to they - same and they are the victims of the criminals of our society .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the problems described by the Senator Sparrow we confrontation all of indignation .
the Code criminal allows to the courts of if show very tougher others the authors of these crimes .
I understand however the concern address by the Senator .
the problem keeps can - be in part to the evolution of the relations family , to the during of the past decades .
to a then , a family deals or agricultural could rely become a family extended , if well that the persons seniors were least often livr?es to they - same , far of the other members of the family .
this is a assumption , but I believe that , if we comparions the situation current to similar of he there has 30 years , we constaterions that he there has today today many more of persons seniors who live only to the held of do part of a family extended .
the protection that the Senator request is can - be , for this only reason , more necessary of our days .
I have took knowledge of data statistics according expelling the number of crimes violent would to the drop in the together of the population .
he must always see these data of a helpful criticism , but he is sure that , for the victims agress?es home they , particularly when he if is of persons seniors , the problem remains serious .
I will certainly do share to my colleagues of the cabinet of the concern and of the question of the hon. Senator .
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Position possible of a program of credit agricultural
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , I like ask to the Leader of the government to the Senate a question on the crisis agricultural , who seems if exacerbate of day in day .
the 2 November 99 , I have asked to the Minister if the government was prepared to contribute of the identify to the credit agricultural order of come in assistance to some farmers who are unable of carry their debts .
the Leader of the government of the Senate has seemed well welcome my suggestion , in taxfiler including that these questions teamwork already the subject of discussions , but that he not wanted not violation the confidentiality of the cabinet .
knows - you , to this stage - side , this that the government has the intention of do in this who respect the credit agricultural ?
hence well a field where the government could give the example to the Banking and to the Cooperatives of credit .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I regret of not power give of response more specific for the time .
since the last time that we have spoken this question , the government federal has awarded a amount Supplementary of 170 million of $ to the program ACRA order of offer a assistance marked to the farmers .
to this time - there , we not knew not to the fair how lines respond the governments provincial .
we not knew not if they accept of confidence their share , correspondent to 40 per of this amount , the government federal stimulates 60 per of the funds , as he the had fact for the program drafted .
to least that the situation gave changed recently , you me has informed that the provinces not had not agreed of confidence more of money .
the governments of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba have all two said officially that they refusaient of increase their contribution financial .
the hon. Senator knows can - be if the situation has evolved since .
I have of the difficulty to understand this reaction .
the two first ministers provincial are came to Ottawa for describe the serious of the situation and the need of a assistance immediate .
in fact , to the during of the few five past years , the assistance that the two governments provincial have granted to their farmers has been substantially reduced .
when they have required with insistance that the government federal ruined , he has paid 170 million of $ in the program .
this not was can - be not all this that the farmers wanted , but this was recognize a legislation positive .
however , he seems that the reactions of the governments of the Manitoba and of the Saskatchewan shifted left to wanting .
the Senator Gustafson :
honourable senators , the Minister not meets not to my question to the about of the credit agricultural , who is a responsibility of the government federal .
this responsibility not is not shared with the governments provincial .
he if is of funds advanced by the government federal .
what that he in be , in this who respect the program ACRA , in the region where I lives , the people who receive of the funds in the framework of this program are financially to the comfortable .
the farmers who have need of money not in receive not .
I like that you fear a inquiry for know who receives the money .
the families poor who have need of the money not the receive not .
this is this that me have said of the farmers of any the Saskatchewan .
for return to the Corporation of the credit agricultural , the government RESP he a relief of the debt post deposited of this society ?
the Corporation of the credit agricultural not is not a responsibility shared with the provinces ; she falls only of the government federal .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I not trying not of ?luder the question of the Senator .
I not can there answer today today .
of any obviously , this file is between the hands of the Minister .
soon that I happy in legislation of give a response clear , I happy very happy of the do .
honourable senators , the two governments provincial in because have uphill expressed , to Ottawa and elsewhere , a admired concern for the farmers .
they not dollar not of apologize when they assessing that the program not works not perfectly well .
we the know .
the senators of the two sides the have claimed during the debate Special held to the request of the hon. Senator Gustafson .
however , the program not has not been designed by the only government federal , he has been machinery in cooperation with the two governments who now , after their intervention soaring , deny of if Services guarantee .
if they not aimaient not the program , they number could propose of the improvements .
the Minister of the Agriculture trying of improve the effectiveness of the program .
however , the fact that extend - side not be not perfect not apologize plans the conduct of these two first ministers .
the Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural - Conformity effectiveness of the program
the hon. Herbert O . Sparrow :
honourable senators , the government of the Saskatchewan has spent 200 million of $ to the program , but this amount not is not spent because the government federal not d?bourse not his share of the money .
he there has therefore of the are in Awaiting , but the government federal not has no plan who step of distribute this money .
the Leader of the government to the Senate has spoke of a amount additionnel of 170 million of $ .
this amount is heartened to all the Canada and not to the only region damaged by the problem whose he is question .
the Department him - even has said that he add some are to the grants already awarded .
by therefore , he not just not in assistance to the majority of the farmers who not have nothing received and whose the requests , in some case , are empil?es on the pupitres since six months .
the governments of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba have paid the are that they altering contributing to the program .
the Leader has said that the governments had agreed of the do .
you we said without constantly that the governments and the organizations agricultural if are heard on this point .
however , this not is not the case .
this who had been proposed has been agreed , but the program developed in implement was well different and the provinces have said that this not was not the program that they had approved .
the Federation Canadian of the agriculture and all the farmers have said that this not was not the program agreed to the origin .
they hand if against to this program because the money not is not paid to those who in have need .
Mr. the Minister , you can certainly say that we in have discussed to the Senate and with the important delegation who is came we meet and that that not works not .
the Committee Senate of the agriculture and the Committee Standing of the agriculture of the House of the Commons know that such is the case , but we persistons to say that this not is not of our fault .
the Leader of the government to the Senate ask he to the Minister of the Agriculture of we say finally if the government committed do someone something , for that we can we withdraw dignement ?
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , as the senators of the two sides the have said to the during of the debate of emergency , the program not works not well and must be amended .
you in has agreed generally and the message has been clear Message .
I not like not let hear that this not was not the case .
honourable senators , I say that he there had there a opportunity for the provinces of do a contribution important .
all the senators can well thinking that 170 million of $ , this not was not enough , but this is a contribution concrete and , to my notice , the two provinces number should in provide many .
the effectiveness of the programs of assistance - Position survival of the young farmers
the hon. Terry Stratton :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the farmers suffering 1000 dead currently .
those who are more seniors and better fortunate can move to the across of the crisis because that they are exclusions since long .
those who in tears are the young who want preserve the business Bankers .
we are in considering of the defeat slowly , but surely .
a year after the other , they suffering 1000 dead and doing bankrupt .
to the held of their say fair that he not there will more of assistance , that they hand away if they are unable of survive by their own means , the government the assistance to the account - piecemeal for keep alive a false hope .
this is unreasonable .
the Minister think he that this is a way equitable of deal the young farmers Canadian ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , we should do our possible for help the young farmers who are in a situation criticism .
we should can - be speak deposited of the Minister to the about of the file of the Corporation of the credit agricultural .
this is a problem of size who , as the honourable senators the know , is Related to the during of the products of basic on the market world and to the fact that our farmers not have not right to of the rules of the stake fair .
this is a problem of size who has of the impact to the wide international and referred he met seek a solution to various levels .
my colleagues me limited the insurance that of the efforts are Process and that of the discussions are in during not only with the Minister of the Agriculture and his Department , but also on the scene international , and this , order of resolve the problem more vast that step , between other things , the absence of rules of the stake fair .
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Conformity Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural - Changes are paid to the claimants
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
well that the hon. Minister gave fact of the efforts meritorious for examine the situation , they not reflect always not the emergency of the situation or the crisis current .
this is very well of speak of the modest are who have been awarded or of the situation World , but he there has currently emergency .
in response to of the emergency , he must adopt of the solutions more cutting , by example , in eliminating the ACRA and in conclusion of the measures completely different for come in assistance to those who are in the need .
he there has to little almost a week , of the persons of the environment agricultural to the Manitoba me have said that approximately 59p. per of the requests presented by the farmers had been rejected .
the Minister knows - he if the situation is in considering of if improve , account held of the restructuring of the ACRA who seems have had held ?
with what speed the things can - they if improve ?
the time leadership and the situation if d?t?riore without constantly .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I then give to her the Senator the insurance that in response to the problem General and to the question particular that she raises on the percentage of requests rejected , we pursuing the evolution of the situation daily .
I not know not if of new data valid are available since that the measures of toll have been taken , but I will certainly me information and convey the request of the hon. Senator .
the Senator Spivak :
what period of probation has you expected for this new restructuring before that the government note that the stake not in worth not the chandelle ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , as this is the case for all program , the Minister responsible ruled the evolution of the situation and , in this case - side , I am sure that he ruled his evolution daily .
I hope that the results if expect feel enough quickly .
I not then say when he overcome that of other changes are necessary or that the program works better now .
this would difficult for me of say when he takes this decision .
however , I not doubt not that he ruled the evolution of the situation to the day the day .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the period of the questions is now completed .
however , the Senator Gustafson wish ask a question .
is - this a question supplementary to a question modified ?
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
his Hon. the Speaker :
please ask your question .
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Request of visit of the Prime Minister
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , account held of the crisis , the Leader of the government to the Senate can - he convey to the Prime Minister a request of go see by him - even the serious of the situation ?
the west of the Canada deserves certainly that the Prime Minister strictly see by him - even the serious of the situation .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I attention certainly this request to the Prime Minister .
[ more later [
the environment
the Nova - Nova - Position responsibility of the timetables of the sites of wastes toxic - Request of response
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , he there has few weeks , I have asked a question to the Leader of the government on the Position of the government regarding the responsibility to the regard of the sites miniers abandoned to the Cape - Cape .
the bill of bill C - 11 , regarding the disbanding of Devco , is currently to the study to the House of the Commons , and I like have a response to this question before that this bill of bill not sometimes here .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I happy happy of answer to the question of the Senator .
to a then , the people were very happy of pay for have this kind of notice legal .
this was , to my notice , the nice then .
I have seen a notice legal to this about .
according this notice legal , that I happy happy of share with the Senator and any other human interested , the bill of bill not will no impact on the responsibility existante .
I can give to the Senator of the information many more d?taill?es to this about , this that I bring .
the Senator Murray :
I wishes know the Position of the government regarding the responsibility to the regard of these sites miniers abandoned .
the Senator Boudreau :
I can say to the Senator that the government attempted well that someone a of other sits the responsibility .
however , I not know not if I can rely on that .
[ more later [
the Defence national
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King - Position possible of the credit - lease - Request of response
the hon. Gerry Germain :
honourable senators , my question if directed also to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the 4 November , I have asked a question regarding the possible of replace the Sea King in leasing of the helicopters , and the Leader of the government party if information deposited of the Minister to this regard .
close - I a response soon or raise - I ask of new the question tomorrow to the period of the questions ?
I getting a entorse to the Rules , Your Hon. , for power ask my question .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , order of speed the process , a response will forwarded .
Questions delayed to of the questions Oral
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have of the Questions delayed to four questions .
the first has relates to a question who has been allowance 2 November 99 to the Senate by the hon. Senator Forrestall to the about of the regiment West Scotia Scotia and of the appointment of a Colonel Honorary .
the second respect a question who has been raised the 3 November 99 to the Senate by the hon. Senator Kelleher to the about of a contract of consultation with the employer of a former ambassador .
the third has relates to a question who has been raised the 3 November 99 to the Senate by the hon. Senator Roche to the about of the disarmament nuclear , of the policy of the government opposite to the resolution of the New Agenda Coalition .
the fourth respect a question who has been raised to the Senate by the hon. Senator Oliver to the about of the efforts Process for increase the representation of the minorities visible to the within of the government .
the Defence national
the West Scotia Regiment - Position appointment of a Colonel Honorary
the West Scotia Regiment account among the units sincerely of the R?serve Canadian .
as all the units of the R?serve , he is a part important of the team of the Defence of the Canada .
in this who respect the appointment of a new Colonel Honorary , the term of a human has been definitive .
this recommendation is currently to the study .
the Affairs foreign
the new ambassador deposited of the Organization World of the trade - Position possible of a contract of consultation with the employer of the former ambassador - Request of Tabled of documents
( response to the question raised by the honorableJames F . Kelleher the 3 November 99 )
not , Mr. Weekes is in break without balance of the MA?CI and not has no contract with the Department .
he if administration of a conflict of interests bearer Weekes knows very well the rules of Ethics to this effect .
2 . No , APCO not has no contract with the government of the Canada
the Nations overseeing
the disarmament nuclear - Position policy of the government opposite to the resolution of the New Agenda Coalition
( response to the question raised by the honorableDouglas Roche the 3 November 99 )
after have led of the consultation depth of senior level of way very intensive , the Canada has decided of maintain his forbearance in this who respect the resolution on the to Nouvel Order of the day to of this year .
in the together , our decision not component not a response to the text of the resolution .
the text of this year has evolved substantially and Right by report to this that we have examined the year last .
the government of the Canada if rallie in addition of way general to the assessment made by the New Agenda Coalition of the strong pressure orchestrated on the regime of disarmament and of not - proliferation nuclear harm on the TNP .
to our notice however , a action concerted designed to resolve the many problems with capably the regime of disarmament and of not - proliferation nuclear is to the taken n?cessitera the support the more broad possible .
the States pool of weapons nuclear and their partners and alliances must if Services for that the you can achieve the objectives of the resolution on the Nouvel Order of the day .
for our share , we differ continue of cooperate with all the States of looked common to the within of the representations update order of uncontroversial a support increased in favour of the too of progress in this who respect the objectives key of the regime of not - proliferation and of disarmament nuclear .
in his quality of member of the NATO , the Canada has took note with satisfaction of the increase of the number of States members of the NATO not pool of weapons nuclear who have adopted a Position common to the opportunity of the vote of this year .
we basis before a new time of the questions simple by the resolution on the Nouvel Order of the day to the Conference of review of the TNP who will held the spring next .
the government of the Canada if efforcera of ensure to this that the Conference heritage the Treaty and r?tablisse a dynamic in view of the too of his objectives .
the development of the resources human
the efforts Process for increase the representation of the minorities visible
( response to the question raised by the Donald H . Oliver the 3 November 99 )
the data regarding the minorities visible in the service public federal are Italiano on the principle of statement volunteered of the employee .
the data available the more recent indicate that on a total of 248 employees if met self - identified in the groups and levels EX - 04 and EX - 05 ( availability - ministers assistants ) , five of between them or 2.0 for cent if are self - identified as members of the group of the minorities visible .
the data for the under - ministers or the persons appointments by the Governor in board not are not available .
Order OF orders
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Kirby , seconded by the hon. Senator Lewis , seconded to the second Reading of the bill of bill C - 6 , Act designed to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of means electronic for communicate or registering of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the Instruments regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws .
his Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Murray , before that you not commenciez , I remind that our Rules you allocates 45 minutes in as that Prime orator to take the speak after the author of the bill of bill .
but you have already prepared de37 minutes .
he you rest therefore eight minutes .
the hon. Lowell Murray :
I will do of my better .
honourable senators , he if is of the second half of a speech that I have began to deal the 4 November in sloppily the debate , to the behalf of the Opposition loyal of Majesty Majesty , on the bill of bill C - 6 .
before of enter in the exhibited of the about , I like correct a inexactitude that I have commise in my speech of the 4 November . says talking of the efforts who have been facts in the past by various parties political in view of supporter in the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedom a right to the life privacy .
I have claimed by mistake Mr. tien had been the Minister of the Justice of the government Trudeau before the election of 1979 .
gold , he not in is nothing .
Mr. . tien is became Minister of the Justice when the government Trudeau has took the power in 1980 .
always in my speech of the 4 November , I have open a parenth?se to comments of the uniqueness posterity of the data of the census .
the question has been raised more earlier today today during of the statement of senators of our colleague , the Senator Milne .
I have spoke of the campaign in during , who could takes the amendment of the bill proposed by shore Wilfrid Laurier , securing the confidentiality of the information personal and to uniqueness private collected to the opportunity of a census .
to the then , I me was opposed by principle to this that the bill be amended .
since , of the Canadians indign?s by this decision me have wrote - and even , in some case , these people were mad - essentially of the people that the g?n?alogie interest .
my response , that I assertion to this day , had been the next : that you we please these circumventing of protection , and we the undergo , if he is asked to the Parliament of amend the bill .
but , on the principle General , I assertion my decision .
I believe that should remain confidentiels all information personal and private , collected by the government in the context of a census , on the faith of a bill securing the confidentiality of the these information .
I believe , by principle , that we should avoid of amend the bill to the lightly .
after all , to the over of the years , the questions raised in the framework of the marked are clearly of more in more indiscr?tes , and this not is not because that the people d?c?dent that the government can if esteemed improve of his obligation of meet the confidentiality promise to these persons .
this is my opinion , honourable senators .
in of the site such that the Senate , we should we hold on our guard opposite to the attempts overcoming of some historians , experts in Science Social and journalists of we persuade that the right of hear and of communicate of the information should the just on all the other rights prior .
this is why I have pr?conis? that we envisagions of supporter a right to the protection of the information personal in the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms .
I acknowledge fully that we have here a conflict or a quelque between two principles legitimate , the a met the access to the information and the other the protection of the information personal .
as for all other conflict of principles , he must trying of find a fair balance .
this quelque of principles or of values derail also in the bill of bill whose we are before .
as I me am committed to the do , I have met a sure number of parties interested or agri by this bill of bill or I have had with they of the conferences phone or still I have read carefully their Crosbie .
I not have not changed of notice to the about of this bill of bill .
I not take not your time today today in trying of include the testimony that they will invited to give before the Committee , I in am sure .
however , I like attention some of the main questions on expelling the Committee need if dealt .
honourable senators , he there has a confusion extraordinary even home the government and his counsel further to know if this bill of bill if applies to the sector of the care of health and how .
the Senator Kirby , the sponsor of the bill of bill , could well front speak of this question when he instrument a term to the debate in second Reading .
however , he need do better that this that he has fact in his statement prudent who found to according 120 of the Debates of the Senate of the 4 November where he has said :
honourable senators , the bill of bill C - 6 will if apply to all the sectors of activity , regardless of the size of the businesses .
that includes also the sector of the health .
he will allow of protect the information personal in Equity of health who have been collected , used and releases in the framework of activities trade .
Mr. . Manley and the Department of the Industry have indicated for their share that the bill of bill not if applies not to the doctors , to the patients and to the hospitals .
I wish to say that this point of view is left in question and , in fact , challenged by of many parties interested and their counsel legal .
this is the case by example of the Association Canadian of the care of health , who represents the hospitals of the Association medical Canadian , of the Association medical of the Ontario and of the Department of the Health of the Ontario .
he if is there of agencies who have a point of view diam?tralement opposed on the extension of the bill of bill and this that you should in do .
yet , they are of agreed on a point , be that the sector of the health not can live with the doubt and the confusion surrounding this bill of bill in this who respect his application to the sector .
the confusion broadsides in part of the least of the fact that the bill of bill is supposed if apply to the to activities trade to .
that committed - you by there ?
you said in the bill of bill that a to activity commercial to is :
any activity due therefore that all act isolated who relieve a uniqueness commercial ...
this definition not is not very useful .
yet , you me said that the laws federal are pleines of definitions who are almost identiques to similar - side in this who has relates to the activity commercial .
the idea is that you suggests to the courts the care of decide in each case this who step a activity commercial .
the hon. Fernand Robichaud ( His Hon. the Speaker Acting ) :
honourable senators , the time of speak of the Senator Murray has expired .
leave is - she granted to the hon. Senator of continue ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Murray :
I thank the honourable senators for their kindness .
frankly , I not me am never stopped to the rule who limit to 45 minutes the intervention of the Senator who meets .
I not me was not realized account that I had past many of time on the first part of my intervention .
I not in have more for very long .
the question is of know if the relationship doctor - patient , in the legislation where he there has of the honoraria , or the relationship Hospital - patient , still a time in the legislation where he there has of the honoraria , are of nature commercial .
that they the ensure or not , he there has when even a problem .
I quote :
according the AMC , he not there has not really average of do a distinction between the activity commercial and the activity of care of health of a way who unacceptably of if ensure that the information formula in the file medical ensure subject to of the rules different of those experienced are covered the other information .
that even if a such distinction was possible , the dilemma would the even for the government because would - he desirable that the issues medical not ensure subject to no rule ?
words said , the agencies who tribute currently of the information on the health able - they argue that they not are not subject to the provisions of the bill of bill C - 54 because that this information fact part of the file of health ?
as you the know , the statement C - 54 is extend who had been assigned to this bill of bill to the opportunity of the session modified .
the or if continues :
in under of a such regime , the issues of health would subject to of the criteria least high that those who have during for the information collected in the context commercial .
this is there the expression of a point of view .
the even opinion is stated by the Association Canadian of the health , who represents the hospitals .
she if based on a opinion legal that she has obtenue of the cabinet of lawyers Heenan Blaikie of Montreal , who specific this who following :
... not only the expression to activity commercial to is - she very ambiguously , but she is also totally achievable to our notice in the context of the system of health of today today .
to the during of the past years , the system of health is became a system of services if complex and if transparent that any legislation designed to exclude only grant to activity commercial to of the system of health to the purposes of the bill of bill C - 54 resulting only to of the results illogiques , Crimes and ridiculous .
I not want not streamline exag?r?ment the question but , in rule general , he is to my notice fair of say that the agencies of the field of the health whose the activities are clear and indubitablement of Order commercial if opposed to this bill of bill and looking that all the sector of the health 730 to his provisions .
when I talking of to these to agencies , I want say between other the pharmaciens , the laboratories and the businesses who tribute , pay and vendent of the data of the field of the health , under a form overall or other , and some agencies of research and universities whose the activities understand a track commercial .
they feel that the obligation of obtain the consent of the people before of communicate of the data in Equity of health is too on?reuse .
to their notice , this prerequisite restrain seriously their ability to meet a body of information integrated designed to ending to a better policy and to a better management in the field of the health .
they suggest even hear that this bill of bill if translate by a backsliding serious of the research medical to the country .
the Ontario Medical Association states that the bill of bill is entities with the Act on the doctors and the Act on the consent to the care of health .
to their notice , the laws provincial should have above .
all these persons believe that the institution of protocoles interprovincial would more effective that a bill federal for ensure the protection of the information on the care of health .
to the hour current , I must say that of other persons well to the fact of the laws provincial not are not also optimistic .
in fact , you said sometimes that the bill Ontario is a bill on the access to the information rather that on the protection of the information .
I not want not say by there that the Ontario Medical Association and the Association Canadian of the care of health not if interested not to the protection of the information on the care of health .
he there has still there quelque to the level of the values , or to all the least of the priorities .
the presentations preparing by these groups arise of the concerns that I hustings of institutionnelles opposite to the ability to manage , to planned and to improve the system of care of health .
they concerned that this bill of bill freine the cooperation between the sectors public and private in this who has relates to the funding or to the Benefit of the care of health .
I have even read in a of the presentations that that could prevent the Red Bleue or the Bouclier rein of the Canada of duties their responsibilities in Ontario in the field of the care of health .
he would , according them , difficult , even even impossible for the government federal of put in implement the recommendations of his Council Advisory on the infostructure of the health who has presented his report in February 99 .
to the shrinking , we have the positions address very drew by the Association medical Canadian and by the Association dental Canadian .
the Association medical Canadian says that the protection of the confidentiality of the file medical of the patient must the just on any other consideration .
she find that this bill of bill is low .
she Justice that the Code of the Association Canadian of normalisation on which if based the bill of bill is inad?quat in this who has relates to the sector of the health and she believes , as she the has said , that the bill of bill seems have the access to the information for value Dominance .
the Association dental Canadian we has said that we must clarify the bill of bill on several other points important .
she says that the bill of bill C - 6 not uniting not to answer to the requirements fundamental for protect the Canadians against the bad use of information personal regarding their health by of the users high and tertiaires of this information .
the bill of bill C - 6 allows can - be of enable several priorities of the government in Equity of trade Electronic , said the ADC , but she believes that the Senate must do someone something for clarify and strengthen the bill of bill in this who respect the information personal in Equity of health .
the Association medical Canadian and the Association dental Canadian have all two machinery of the amendments that they want that we dimensions and who , of after this that I in have including , incorporeraient essentially in this legislation federal their own codifies of protection of the information personal .
honourable senators , the Committee is ceiling to a task difficult and complex .
before these positions who if opposed cleansing , even in the field of the health , he would trying of say that the truth ahead someone share between these two positions and that the government is probably excitements to establish a fair balance with his bill of bill C - 6 .
he would trying of in arrive to this conclusion or of support this argument , but this would really too easy .
first , the Committee need watering of concerning the doubt and the confusion to comments of the applicability of the bill of bill to the sector of the health .
this is a field really too important .
the protection of the information personal in Equity of health is too important for let this sector in the confusion .
he is clear that the professionals in this field not can the accept because they we the have said .
if the bill of bill not is not clarifi? , extend - side risk , a time adopted , of be more often violated that respected .
no of between we not wish that he in be therefore .
even if we can eliminate the doubt who there further to the application of the bill of bill , that r?pondons - we to the Association medical Canadian and to the Association dental Canadian , who insistent order that the legislation legislative be substantially stipulates ?
should - we try of apply the provisions to all the sector of the health , as commercial that not commercial ?
if we the do , have - we truly the power constitutional of act of the sort ?
finally , he must absolutely hear Health Canada relatively to this question .
for many that I far , no representative of Health Canada not is came testify during of the hearings of the Committee of the House of the Commons .
the Committee and the Senate must benefit of the views of the Department of the Health relatively to all the aspects of the bill of bill who touch the sector of the health .
personally , I not wish not to this that the Minister come testify , but the Committee should certainly invite of the senior officials of the Department of the Health to come examine this legislation legislative , met given that similar - side affects the health .
honourable senators , we have many of work to do .
cautions - we to the task , but not rush not the things .
not we imposons not of soon artificiels when he if is of a question also important .
this time - side , we not have not to we preoccupied of a prorogation .
we can take the time necessary .
honourable senators , I you thank of your indulgence .
the hon. Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , I have listened with great interest the criticism urgently of our hon. colleague .
he we remind and heritage the importance of the question of the right to the life privacy , essentially , the right that you we suggests tranquilles .
I believe that this is the Justice Brandeis who has said that we had the right that you we suggests tranquilles , and I am well of agreed with him .
the question is of know if this bill of bill meets to the two criteria following .
the Prime is a criterion economic and the second respect the justice social .
a great number of the senators who if find today today in opposite of me understand the dilemma who introducing to balance justice economic and justice social of a manner who be equitable for them and for the persons that we have the privilege of represent in this House , therefore that for all the persons others expelling we inspire a strong sense of responsibility .
honourable senators , this is with a joy any particular that I talking today today of the bill of bill C - 6 .
I me recall that , of the time where I toeing to the other place , he if called the bill of bill C - 54 , Act on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic .
my joy is of many more great that the a of the responsibilities and of the duties whose I am the more proud has been of serve in as that chairman of the Committee Standing of the rights of the human and of the condition of the persons disabilities of the other place .
we have held of the hearings on a great variety of questions regarding the life privacy and , in 1997 , we have prepared a report entitled : to Position life privacy :
where if ranges the border ? to
we have heard of the stories enough troublantes to the about of the treatment awarded to the persons disabilities and of the rights of the human who not were not well protected .
we have heard speak of the challenges that represents the new Technology to the level of the protection of the rights of the citizens of in prevent some of smells in their life privacy and of use the information that they d?couvrent to of the purposes deprivation .
our research me have fact discover the many facets complex that includes this question .
he rest still many of work to do for strengthen our rights basic .
today today , I traiterai in particular of the part 1 of the bill of bill and of the protection of the information personal in the sector private .
that not falling in nothing my reserves further to the second part of the bill of bill who door on the documents electronic .
the provisions of the part 2 of the bill of bill are essential for facilitate the trade Electronic who is became if important for the economy Canadian current and whose the importance not will that increase to the over of the years .
for the time , I like particularly me focus on the definition of the protection of the life privacy and of the use of the information personal .
the provisions of the bill therein C - 6 designed to ensure the protection of the life privacy represent a great not in the good leadership , particularly to the eyes of those who constataient the pressing need of better protect this right .
in model the principles of the protection of the data recognized internationalement to the businesses private of resort federal , the bill of bill underlies toward a regime exhaustive of protection of the life privacy .
of the laws on the protection of the information personal and on the trade Electronic are already in considering of be completed in Europe , in the Union European , to the OECD , in Nova - Zealand and in Australia .
the Americans are concerned because that they not lags not of mechanisms precise of protection of the information commercial .
they ?largissent currently the scope of this protection for power strengthen their activity commercial .
we have also need of do of the trade , honourable senators .
I am pleased that we we dirigions in this seaway through to this bill of bill .
I remind to the honourable senators that the protection of the information personal not is not a something to which you can thinking after suddenly in a society democratic .
the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy , Bruce Phillips , if nat of these questions , of even that of those who authority of the Act on the access to the information .
these two laws can sometimes enter in conflict , but all two have for obligation of protect all the citizens .
the Act on the protection of the information personal governs the raising , the use and the communication of information personal by of the institutions governmental .
she is very tough and has been effective until here .
to my notice , the Commissioner Phillips if is very well cabinet of this service .
the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy of the Canada has supported that the force who anime the companies d?centes is the respect of the principle of equity .
we must we deal the each the other with a level reasonable of respect .
we not must not we tour in cachette with of the information that we can use against of other persons .
the bill of bill C - 6 intended to ensure the respect of this principle of equity and of d?cence .
to my notice , the bill of bill has reached the balance delicate who if imposes between the need for the businesses Canadian of have access to of the information personal for exercise their activities and the need for all the citizens of control the raising , the use and the communication of the information who the originated .
he is came to good number of between we of have a astonishes to the letters who d?borde of new mail of all kind .
we we asking then to what magazine we have took a abonnement or still what Purchase we have fact to the average of a card of credit , of sort that we understand this that we efficiently to our door , in the mail and by the through of our telephone , and we not are not surprise .
this who we amazed , this is that our names ensure sold .
each of we is a subject of trade , a marchandise .
in what legislation want - we control this marchandise for protect of the information personal ?
the effort for establish a balance is obvious in the section setting the subject of the bill of bill .
I putting that the legislation has need of be amend?e and clarifi?e .
I know if we going do a compromise and we hear , but I if certainly more to the comfortable if this question knowing the subject of a review more thorough .
the provisions on the protection of the life privacy recognize that we conclude in a era where the Technology removing of more in more the flow and the Exchange of information .
this is a wording that he not should not forget .
the bill of bill C - 6 not is not a panacea for all the threats to the life privacy experienced doing opposite all the companies democratic modern , but he if touch on a part important who is the possible that of the information personal ensure delivered to of the organizations to the Canada .
the bill of bill confer to the consumers of the rights in this who respect the information personal who the originated , all in complying the need legitimate of the businesses of hear and of use these information .
the consumers must have confidence - this is very important with Internet - and we must promote this confidence .
for that our businesses fill and grandissent , they must establish a link of confidence with those who use their services .
by therefore , the confidence that has the consumer that his information personal will protected in the transactions electronic is absolutely basic .
in even time , the efforts for protect the information Authorize on of the individuals not must not standard unnecessarily of the costs for the businesses .
the new legislation legislative require that the businesses if conforment to the together of practices fair of treatment of the information developed to the point by the representatives of the industry .
the groups of Defence of the consumers , the unions , the government and various sectors of the field of the health have been consulted for this legislation legislative of the Association Canadian of normalisation .
this is there , I believe , a vast representation of the concerns and of the needs to take in consideration .
the practices fair of treatment of the information whose he is question if repeatedly the Code type of the Association Canadian of normalisation .
this Code is in force since 1996 and is joined in Printed to the bill of bill .
he has been developed to the point by the society civil , the businesses , the industry , the professionals and the NGOs .
a of the amendments would relevant in the actions because he if is of a description very vast who covers a broad range of businesses trade to the Canada .
this Code establishes the obligations of the businesses who tribute , use and ministerial of the information personal .
the businesses must indication to the persons to what purposes the data are resulting , obtain their consent before of use or of communicate the information , ensure to this that the information ensure well those who are necessary for the purposes experienced they must serve - not not not important what purposes , but well the purposes experienced they have been collected - and protect the information by of the measures of security legitimate .
the standard national establishes also the right of the subjects of the data of see and of correct their issues and of if complaining in case of problems .
these persons can if contact to someone a in the business who seems use to bad escient or difficulty communicate the information and require that a responsible if nat of the problem and particulars the measures update .
he there will without doubt a debate on the improvements to contribute to the bill of bill for the pay more effective .
I remind to the honourable senators that a bill of bill is rarely perfect in his form original ; in fact , little of things are parfaites in this world well imparfait .
the evolution of this legislation legislative we montrera in what sense we orienter for contribute of the amendments who improve his effectiveness on the plan of the protection of the information personal all in complying the interests legitimate of the businesses Canadian in any the legislation of the possible .
a Senator has asked a question to the about of the together of the services of health .
I known the AMC , and I believe understand that she applies the oath of Hippocrate , a Code of conduct and a Code of Ethics .
all the doctors , dentists and pharmaciens must if there conform .
that not means not necessarily say that we must have all a patchwork h?t?roclite of measures for prevent any injured to the right to the protection of the identity and of the information personal to the Canada .
honourable senators , I have been very pleased of see that you had brought of the changes to the bill of bill presented to the departure to the other place .
he there has had 16 amendments , and a sure number of between them have answered to number of my questions and of my concern .
therefore , the definition of the information personal has been amend?e .
the amendment is very important , because the expression reclassification now all this who if quoted to a individual identifiable .
that if applies to of the things as the cam?ras of monitoring , the cam?ras plac?es in the washrooms , the information medical and dentaires , the information of Order revamped , the pharmacies who livrent the pharmacare , and the research .
however , for we pr?munir against any mistake - that is crucial , because our information personal a time perdus , not can be typical - , he is vital that the definition if ?tende to the members of the professions Liberal and to the NGOs .
I like that we apportions a amendment to this clause where the you find the definitions .
if I not me read , this clause if find in the part 1 , to the section 2 , that just of read the Senator .
this section define this that he must hear by activity commercial .
that is - this that a activity commercial ?
if he if is of a activity commercial , the activity in because should be couverte and she should understand of the professionals and of the agencies without purpose profit .
I believe that we r?glerions therefore some of the problems who have been raised by various agencies .
honourable senators , then - I complete , with your leave ?
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Finestone :
he if is of information related to of the beings human identifiables and , frankly , I not like not thinking to them in as that groups or cercles different .
essentially , if the information that you have me respect and that you the papacy obtenue because that I you the have demand?e for my police of insurance , of the services of health , of the services medical or dentaires , this information me belongs and she me respect .
as my grandchildren - children the say , she is to me .
she is to me and human not can if the commandeer if we pass this bill of bill properly .
the right of not not be identifiables by those describes we not wish not be known - short , the right of not not be importun?s - must be guaranteed in the section of the bill of bill where are contained the definitions .
I like well that we parvenions to the do .
I hope that the Minister acceptance of amend this definition and that he ups to this that she specific that he we important little of where has been abdomen this information or how she is sentence in the world commercial if the interested who the has obtenue not had not the right of the do - he not had not my leave , he not has not obtained my whatsoever and I not want not that he gave this information in his possession .
he must also examine the question raised to the notwithstanding 7 ( 3 ) f ) of the bill of bill relatively to the communication of data to of the purposes of research .
many of people if Senator of the use of data to of the purposes of research .
he there has average of use of the data without identify the persons .
he not there has no reason for that you not can not the do .
you can lead of the research without promoting the identity of the persons .
the question categorically by this clause is the end word of the history .
short , honourable senators , this bill of bill is excellent even if he must be developed and thorough to some places .
I believe that the bill of bill C - 6 , who fact part of the strategy necessary to this end , will the favour of the House and become bill .
I believe that we able do case without problem with the Union European .
I believe that we respecterons the criteria of the OECD .
more important still , I believe that we prot?gerons the information personal of all the world .
( on the motion of the Senator Oliver , the debate is adjourned . )
- honourable senators , I am particularly pleased of speak in favour of the bill of bill S - 10 , who intended to amend the Act on the Defence national , the Act on the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques therefore that the Code criminal .
this bill of bill there in a broad legislation through to the Senate and more specifically to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
this bill of bill represents the What of a commitment that the Solicitor General has took the fall last when the Committee examinait the new Act on the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques .
as you you in recall can - be , this bill provides the institution of a bank national of data g?n?tiques who allow of maintain the profile of Sites genetics of individuals who have committed of the crimes serious and violent .
during his review , the Committee has noticed that the bill of bill not required no clause Authorize the levy of marine Finland on of the Offenders anywhere guilty of offences serious and violent and traduits in the framework of the system of justice military , levy whose the results are then paid in the bank of data g?n?tiques .
the Committee has expressed his concerns further to the nature extremely sensitive of the data g?n?tiques , to the evolution quick of the Technology regarding the fingerprints g?n?tiques and to the risks of bringing injured to the life privacy of the Canadians of manner impr?vue .
these concerns had prompting the Committee to recommend , in his sixteenth report , of contribute some improvements to the measures legislation dealing the bank of data g?n?tiques .
the Solicitor General if was committed to give following to these recommendations in carcinogens a bill of bill distinct before the implementation in place of the bank national of data g?n?tiques .
met given that the bill of bill S - 10 meets to of the questions raised to the Senate , the Solicitor General has asked wording that he be presented to the Senate before the other place .
I am satisfied that we appr?cions all this initiative deM .
I sometimes now to the content of the bill of bill .
he if is of a bill of bill sensitivity technical , truff? of references to of other laws , but , essentially , his major elements are very simple .
all of first , the bill of bill severing the Act on the Defence national and the Act on the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques of manner to include in the bank national of data g?n?tiques the profiles of the individuals recognized guilty of offence to the Code of discipline military or of offences serious and violent .
the Code if applies to the staff military , to the Reserves and to some civilians who accompanies the military to the abroad .
the system of profiles of Sites genetics established by the bill of bill S - 10 for the army following very closely the model of the system that the Parliament has created for the civilians .
to the following of a condemnation for the offence pantheon , the judges military discuss therefore the power of Appear the levy of ?chantillons of marine Finland on of the persons justiciables of the Code of discipline military .
the provisions of this bill having relates to the Building of mandates are adjusted to the peculiarities of the context military .
therefore , the police military able ask of the mandates regarding the analyses g?n?tiques when she enqu?tera on of the offences of Order military who are comparable to the offences high d?finies in the Code criminal .
the changes Whelans of the improvements notables to the bill in force .
in the state present of the things , the police military can if contact to a Justice of a court provincial for obtain a mandate relatif to of the analyses g?n?tiques in the framework of the inquiry on a offence pantheon commise to the Canada , but she not can not obtain this mandate if the offence has been commise to the abroad .
the list of the offences d?sign?es certainty in the Code criminal not includes not some offences serious to the words of the Act on the Defence national or some offences to uniqueness strictly military , by example , the unreliability with violence .
the bill of bill occasionally to the judges military the power of render of the mandates relating to the analyses g?n?tiques in case of offences to the Act on the Defence national of sort that the police military can lead of the investigations police more effective as to the Canada that to the abroad .
a second series of changes concerning in this bill of bill meets directly to the recommendations of the Committee Senate .
this bill of bill give to the Senate the even power that the House of the Commons for this who is of examine the Act on the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques five years after his proclamation .
these changes improve specifically to give to the Parliament the tools necessary for monitor the effectiveness of the bank of data on a some period , this who was a concern of the Senate .
the third Main part who is amended is the statement of the principles of the Act on the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques , who is expanded .
he will indicated that the marine Finland random and the profiles g?n?tiques exclusions to departure of these marine not can be used that to the purposes of application of the bill .
this amendment intended to answer to the concerns of the Committee Senate to the about of the bad use possible of the profiles g?n?tiques , by example for determine the makes Medical , physical or mentales of a human .
in fact , that base some of the questions raised during the debate on the information personal .
this bank of data has for subject of identify the persons , as you can already the do to the average of the fingerprints photographed .
he not if is not and he not if Glenney never of compiler of the information of Order staff .
of the changes concerning to the Code criminal enable of protect also against all bad use the data g?n?tiques of the persons justiciables of the Code of discipline military .
the other changes of this bill discuss for effect of clarify and of strengthen the regime of levy of marine Finland .
pursuant to the new principle whose I just of you speak , the Code criminal will amended of sort that the system of justice military will also subject to the ban of use to of the purposes not allowable the marine Finland random and the results of their analysis genetics .
finally , this bill of bill includes a sure number of changes of Order practice to the Code criminal order of ensure the implementation in implement of the Act on the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques .
the Code criminal is therefore clarifi? to this regard since he there is said that the something not has not to be orderly if the lawyer of the Crown informed the court that the profile genetics of the human categorically if find already in the bank national of data g?n?tiques .
you obey therefore the system more effective and you RESPs the Estimates outlive occasionn?es by the raising and the analysis in double of the ?chantillons of marine Finland bailed on the offenders chronic .
in the case where of the offenders are forwarded in a other province before that a Order of levy of a ?chantillon not gave been ex?cut? , the judges of courts provincial able approve the Order or the Authorized who has been awarded in the province of where stem the offenders in question .
two provisions of the Code criminal , who not were not still in force , will abrog?es to because of the consequences negative that they number for the Administration of the justice .
he if is of the obligation , for a officer of the peace , of inform a human categorically by a order or a mandate relatif to the analyses g?n?tiques that she can express his meritorious further to the substance corporelle to levies - blood , salive or flash - and of the obligation of the officer of the peace of hold account of the meritorious stated .
these provisions pose a problem because that nothing in the right p?nal not stuck the police to let a human who fact the subject of a inquiry choose the way of raising of the elements of evidence .
who more is , as the have underlined the representatives of the provinces and of the territories , the judges prescrivent already in the mandates the procedure of inquiry to follow , and if you suggests the human choose , that conservative to do unused his decision against similar of a Justice .
a other clause of the Code criminal will abrog?e .
she respect the entry consensus in the bank of data g?n?tiques of the results of the inquire of marine Finland Debates volunteers or accomplished in under of a mandate Authorize the too of analyses g?n?tiques during the inquiry .
the laboratories judicial Canadian have fact know that they not were not in favour of enter the results of the inquire of marine Finland and the profiles g?n?tiques who in clauses in the bank of data in these case - there , because the marine Finland and the profiles generic are usually retained for serve of Room to conviction to the case where he there would a new proceedings .
in addition , the ?chantillons bailed in under of a mandate Authorize of such inquire , contrary to those who will bailed for the bank of data after the condemnation , are assortis of codifies of Sites personal .
he will therefore more difficult for the RCMP of protect the rights to the life privacy of the individuals , therefore that the draws the Act on the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques .
for avoid all problem , you consider now necessary of levies of new ?chantillons of marine Finland each time that he there has a order for their inclusion in the bank of data , this is - to - say after the condemnation .
in conclusion , the bill of bill S - 10 move some amendments to the Act on the Defence national , to the Act on the Sites of the fingerprints g?n?tiques and to the Code criminal in view of allow the implementation in place effective of a bank of data of data g?n?tiques complete .
not only he give following to the recommendations of the Committee Senate , but in more he affine the bill on the bank of data to of the purposes of application practice .
took together , these changes faced we have in this House took a share important treaty to protect the right of the Canadians to the life privacy all in dotant the police , for his investigations , of a tool of high technicit? who allow of improve the security public .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , to the behalf of the Senator Nolin , the debate is adjourn? . )
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in Bill of conventions tax
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
- honourable senators , I am pleased of initiate the debate to the step of the second Reading of the bill of bill S - 3 .
this text legislative has for subject of put in implement of the conventions tax treaties between the Canada and seven country - the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzb?kistan and the Syria - with capably the Canada not has not of conventions tax in force currently .
the bill of bill door also creation of a new convention replacement the convention current with the Luxembourg and highlights in implement a protocol who severing of the parties of the convention reached with the Japan .
before of alters the bill of bill , I like take a time for establish the context in which he if recorded .
to the time where the regime of the tax on the income of the Canada has been examined and revised in 1971 , he in has including furore a Families of our system of conventions tax with of other country .
to the hour current , of the conventions tax between the Canada and 65 country are in force .
honourable senators , he you int?ressera can - be of know that since 1976 , 24 bills of bill of conventions tax have been tabled to the Parliament . In the two past years only , of the conventions or of the protocoles have been exclusions with 14 country .
the conventions tax are particularly important for the Canada because that they are directly related to the trade international of products and of services and that they have therefore a impact direct on their performance economic domestic .
this impact is great .
the exports Canadian represent now more of 40 per of our product within gross annual .
in addition , the health economic of the Canada each year speaks also on the Investment abroad direct therefore that on the influx of information , of capital , of Technology , of royalties , of dividends and of interests .
he is therefore obvious that the conventions tax ensuing in the bill of bill S - 3 profiteront to the businesses and to the special Canadian who separate of the activities and who hold of the investment in these country .
the taxpayers Canadian will including happy of learn that a rate of tax set by convention not can be increased without a long notice .
of more , of the simple fact of their existence , the conventions tax cr?eront a climate of certainty and of stability for the investors and the n?gociants .
this climate not able that improve the relations economic that indications the Canada with each of these country .
in addition , in eliminating the need of pay of the tax on some profits of business and in setting a mechanism of regulation of the problems Deployment by the taxpayers , he will possible of reduce the grow and the incommodit? of the regime tax as such .
the fact of streamline the regime of the conventions tax stimulate the activity international , this who will a effect favourable on the economy Canadian .
finally , the Elimination or the att?nuation of the double tax who could words telecom in the framework of the operations international Bennett the more great advantage .
if the you takes in account the convention who Vo similar in force with the Luxembourg , the new conventions ensuing in the bill of bill S - 3 improve two great objectives : avoid the double tax and prevent the Seniors tax .
these problems are already took in consideration in the convention in force with the Japan .
I me deregulation of attention that in the case of the conventions tax pensioners , these conventions are greatly laden of the model of double tax prepared by the Organization of cooperation and of development economic .
the possible of double tax declared when a taxpayer ahead in a country and that he commuting a income in a other country .
without convention tax , the two country can clamour of the tax on this income .
the conventions of double tax doing in sort that the even income not can be imposed two time .
the conventions tax treaties by the Canada if attack to this problem of two ways .
first , in exclusive the rights of tax between the country of residence of the taxpayer and the country of origin of the income .
second , if the income is however free in the two country , in requiring of the country of residence that he consider the income as met Career of tax or in easier a credit to the payments of the tax paid to the country of origin .
of even , the conventions of double tax exceptions the Exchange of information between the authorities tax in view of prevent the Seniors or the evasion tax .
this is the second objective of these conventions .
the sharing of the information assistance the authorities tax to cerner the case of Seniors and of evasion tax and to there rectify .
in this who has relates to the conventions ensuing in the bill of bill S - 3 , each country treated the relief who agreeable to the payments of the tax paid in the other country part to the convention tax .
the Canada and the other country apply usually of the taxes of restraint to various types of income of not - residents .
the country of where is learned the income can clerical of the taxes but to a rate who if limit usually to 5 , 10 or 15 per on the dividends and the profits of the branches and to 10 per in the case of the interests and of the royalties .
in some case , the royalties pay?es to the payments of the rights of author , of the software , of the patents and of the know - do are exon?r?es to the source .
the convention reached with the Kirghizistan , by example , limit the rate of the restraint of tax to 15 per in the case of the dividends , of the interests and of the profits of branches and ?10p. per in the case of the royalties .
he there some exon?rations for this who is of the interests therefore that of the royalties on the rights of author , the software , the patents and the know - do .
the convention reached with the Lebanon provides a restraint of tax of 5 per on the dividends paid to a society who holds to the least 10 per of the Senators of the society who loan the dividends and of 15 per in all the other case .
the profits of branches and the royalties on the rights of author , the software , the patents and the know - do will imposed to a rate of 5 per and the interests to a rate of 10 per .
for the Algeria , a tax of 15 per will win in the case of all the dividends , interests and royalties , and some exon?rations are ensuing for the interests and the royalties on the software and the patents .
the convention reached with the Bulgaria provides the application of a restraint of tax of 10 per on the dividends fellows to a society holding to the least 10 per of the Senators of the society who loan the dividends , and of 15 per in all the other case .
for this who of the convention reached with the Portugal , a society must evidence to the least 25 per of the Senators of the society who loan the dividends for have right to a restraint of tax de10p. per on the dividends .
a restraint of 15 per if apply in all the other case .
a restraint of 10 per if apply also to the interests and royalties , to few exception almost for the interests .
in this who has relates to the Ouzb?kistan , the rate of restraint of tax who if apply to the dividends fellows to a society who holds to the least 10 per of the Senators of society who loan the dividends will of 5 per and of 15 per in all the other case .
a rate of 10 per if apply to the interests and to the royalties , and a tax of 5 per will pr?lev? on the rights of author , the patents , the software and the know - do .
the new convention reached with the Syria establishes ?10p. per the restraint of tax who if applies to the dividends fellows to a society holding to the least 10 per of the Senators of the society who loan the dividends , and to 15 per , similar who if applies in all the other case .
the convention provides also a restraint of 10 per on the interests and the royalties , some exon?rations if model to the interests on the 1993 Government and guaranteed by the government .
the bill of bill S - 3 Vo the current convention of 1989 reached with the Luxembourg and provides the application of a restraint of tax of 5 per on the dividends for a society who holds to the least 10 per of the Senators of the society who loan the dividends , and of 15 per in all the other case .
a rate of 10 per if apply to the interests and to the royalties , of new to few exception almost for the interests and the royalties on the software , the patents and the know - do .
the bill of bill S - 3 severing also the current convention of 1986 reached with the Japan .
the protocol with the Japan fact move of 10 to 5 per the tax win on the dividends between companies and he ?claircit a sure number of other provisions .
in addition , the protocol door specifically on the question of the taxes Japanese of business in exon?rant of these taxes the companies Canadian who Distinguished of the ships or of the aircraft in the field of the transportation intercontinental , a legislation of courtesy already granted by the provinces Canadian to the companies Japanese who separate of the activities similar .
honourable senators , the conventions that contains the bill of bill S - 3 identification also on of other questions of conventions tax .
by example , the country of origin can impose the gains in capital earned to the Divestiture of a well estate , of active commercial and of actions in the companies real or of the participation in of the real or of the companies of persons real .
the discrimination based on the nationalit? of a taxpayer is raw .
however , the measures incitatives as the deduction granted to the small businesses and the credit of tax for dividends whose norm the Canadians not are not affected .
before of conclude , I like me dealt on the question of the migrations of the taxpayers .
four of the conventions ensuing in this bill of bill boat account of a some way of the rules on the migration of the taxpayers who have been proposed by the Minister of the Finance and who expect part of the bill of bill budget of 99 .
these proposals improve to amend the Act of the tax on the income of way to this that the Canada divested the right of impose the gains earned by the immigrants during their stay here .
to the time of pay public the bill of bill in December last , the Minister has announced that the Canada ren?gocierait his conventions tax for hold account of the new rules order of avoid the double tax .
therefore , in appeals that these rules shifted force of bill , the Canada has rigorous his conventions tax of manner to avoid the double tax to the time where the gains earned by of the immigrants , before their departure , are mobile .
in this who respect the bill of bill S - 3 , the conventions with the Luxembourg , the Portugal , the Lebanon and the Syria boat account of the migration of the taxpayers .
however , the conventions with the Ouzb?kistan , the Bulgaria , the Algeria and the Khirghizistan not in boat not account met given that they have been n?goci?es before the announcement of the proposals .
the Japan has asked that this question of the migration of the taxpayers be substantive in the framework of future negotiations surrounding the convention .
for conclude , I like highlight that the conventions tax that contains this bill of bill are con?ues for relieve the double tax international of the income transferred of a country to a other .
these conventions tax enable of do in sort that the political tax Canadian ensure colleague uniform?ment to the operations treaties with the Khirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzb?kistan , the Syria , the Japan and the Luxembourg . Elles cr?eront also a climate of stability for the investors and the n?gociants Canadian in these country .
honourable senators , the bill of bill S - 3 is a text legislative of nature standard who intended a tax equitable and the keeping of good relations international and trade .
the equity of the regime tax - who , as we the know all , step a priority of the state - respectful that no Canadian not if find took to the pi?ge of the double tax .
gold , these conventions tax improve specifically to eliminate the double tax .
before of conclude , I like highlight the work wonderful of the team of experts who have informed this process long and accordance of our government .
these officials have served the interests of the Canada under the habile leadership of their Minister respectif to the Finance and to the Justice .
they deserve all our thanks .
as this text of bill not raises no controversy , I you invite urge to the support .
( on the motion of the Senator Staunton - Lynch , the debate is adjourned . )
the speech of the seated
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Vodrey , seconded by the hon. Senator Furey , seconded to the Adopted of a Adresse to His Excellency the Gouverneure general in response to the speech that contemporaries has sir during of the openness of the second session of the 30 - sixth session Parliament . -
( 3e day of the resuming of the debate . )
the hon. William Kelly :
honourable senators , I am delighted of see that many of senators of this side - side ensure swim for me hear this after - afternoon .
I have therefore well the intention of in advantage to the maximum .
I me congratulate of the commitment took in the speech of the Throne to of ensure to this that the Forces Canadian ensure in legislation of support the role of the Canada for contributing to the security in the world to .
cover - we however of under - Number the legislation in which we are held of honour this commitment .
since 1988 , the Estimates incurred to the payments of the Defence national have decreased in $ real , year after year , to the point that the power of Purchase of the budget of the Defence is today today to little almost equivalent to extend of the beginning of the years 70 .
the means whose we begin for buy the equipment necessary and in ensure the maintenance have been particularly affaiblis by following of cuts budget .
the force of the forces Armed actives , who was of doubling 100,000 persons in 1989 - 1990 , should , according the forecasts , fall of 60 100,000 of here to the end of the fiscal financial in during .
we not are already more in legislation of Establishing of the units combattantes for the Resistance of land , be the minimum acceptable for lead a action military sustainable .
according the data published by the NATO , the Canada if recorded to the last rank of the country members for this who is of the troop of the Force due and of the Forces first and high of contingency .
he there in has who argue that the end of the War Cold has abolish the need of maintain a ability military deeply and permanent and has created a perspective of to advantageous of peace to .
as I the have often said in this House , I believe that they if trompent totally .
the threats to the security and their sources have can - be changed , but the world of today today is affiliated more instable , dangerous and unforeseeable that never .
the possible of conflict local and regional d?clench?s by of the mouvements separatists nationalists is always presented in all the across of the chorus .
the threat of terrorism by of the States ren?gats and of the groups rebel there always .
honourable senators , I sphere to believe that the impact international of the failure of some States constitueront the key threat to the security of the Canada and of the Canadians in a future result .
that this be in Africa , in the former - Union Soviet , in Asia of the South - East , in America core or in America of the South , he sometimes that of the States if d?sorganisent , as you the has seen already , for various reasons economic , Environmental or political .
the d?sint?gration of a state creates a vacuum of power that if empressent often of fill of the groups criminals or terrorist who , to their turn , threaten the security of the other States .
you find of the examples of that in the former - Union Soviet .
the effritement of the power Civil has fact welfare any a series of activities sordides .
honourable senators , the months last by example , the authorities russes have stopped six persons to Vladivostok who if appr?taient to slipping of the country six kilogrammes of uranium refuge for the sell to the outside .
this uranium erroneous of a plant where the you d?mantelait some parties of the conserving nuclear Soviet and of the terrorist or of the groups criminals number could the use for manufacture of the bombs nuclear small certainly , but very destructrices .
this is to because of threats of this kind that we must remain deliver and maintain in ongoing a good service of Intelligence of security and a army promote .
I congratulate the government of his commitment others the military , but I hope see more of details in the next budget federal .
the speech of the Throne specific the plans of the government for the arrived of the new millennium .
you said often that this Prime Minister and his government missing of vision .
he there has many of talk words in the speech of the Throne on the preparedness to the new millennium .
I acknowledge that to several occasions you talking of facilitate , by example , the trade Electronic and the access to Internet , but that not step not a vision overall for guarantee the future of the Canada .
the globalization of the economies means that all the economies becoming of more in more interd?pendantes .
in fact , soon , he not there will more this that you Order a to economy domestic to .
he not there will more that a only economy and a only market .
the economies , the markets and the competition not will not limited by the boundaries national or regional .
he not there will more of boundaries .
between - time , all the investors and people of Affairs international critically continually to a review detailed who not would never been possible before , of all the economies domestic , there including similar of the Canada .
the progress in the technologies of the telecommunications , particularly the progress in the trade Electronic , doing that the investment can be accomplished and of the decisions can be taken in millisecondes .
the capital can enter in a country or in slipping in a moment .
the year last , we have been witnesses can - be of the Prime example of the impact of these forces and of the trade Electronic on the economy of the Nations of the Asia of the South - East and of the Pacific .
these important fuites of capital constituency a vote of not - confidence by the investors international and the community of the Affairs .
the impact if doing feel of our days in of the country individual , there including to the Canada , and in the world around .
to the following of the crisis Asian , the during of the dollar Canadian has falling by report to the dollar American then that the cambistes have bought the more of $ U.S. possible for if protect against the earners Asian .
our exports toward the Far - East have suffered then that the crisis has affects a dropping of the price of the products of basic .
the capital and the businesses not are more related by the geography , the time or the stripes national .
a economy or a government who not if includes not as the Banking , the financial , the courtiers in values securities and the agencies of cotation in the capitales financial the farm can do the subject , quickly and crises , he is true , of sanctions very unclear .
even if we not go can - be not that , he not in remains not least that the Canada not has not of other option that of enfiler this that you Order a to corset economic to who shows to all that the Canada is a good place where invest and do of the Affairs to the during of the new millennium .
the art of governance will of adjust this corset economic order of improve the situation of the Canada and of the Canadians to better answer of their requirements and of protect the things who are special for the Canadians and who doing part of our way of life , as by example , our system national of care of health .
what that he in be , to the time where we going address the new millennium , the Canada has many to do .
the debt overall of the levels federal , provincial and City is too high and continues of grow .
our levels of tax personal represent a burden excessive .
in despite of improvements important who have been concerning to the during of the two past decades , our economy includes always many of regulations and of paperasserie .
we are always widely city of the resources natural .
approximately 40 per of the GDP of the Canada clauses of the trade of our resources natural .
he there has always of too many obstacles to the trade , to the Investment and to the mobility of the labour - of implement to the country .
in despite of the progress challenges obviously to the during of the past years , our infrastructure of basic in the sectors of the 2004 of water , of the ?gouts and of the transportation , particularly in the major cities , require of the delicacies and of the improvements important .
we must do more in view of improve our productivity .
we must in do more in the sectors of the education , of the research and of the development order of become the kind of society innovatrice and adaptable who will not only survive but who will also vibrant to the during of the next millennium .
he there always a gap considerable between this that the Canada is and this that he could become .
to this regard , I congratulate the government who has took the commitment in the speech of the Throne of present of new a legislation legislative designed to protect the information personal and commercial in a Alexander hamstrung and to recognize the signatures electronic .
of similar initiatives are essential if the Canada and the Canadians want be in legislation of benefit fully of the opportunities educational by the Internet and the trade Electronic .
honourable senators , the ?vocation of the laundering of money me remind that the government if is committed in the speech of the Throne to put the focus on the threats new experienced must do opposite the Canadians , as the laundering of the money .
according the Department of the Finance , of 5 to 17 billion of $ , or as I the have read in the newspaper this morning of 17 to 40 billion of $ stand each year disguised to the Canada or by the through of the Canada .
the Group of action financial on the laundering of capital , who if composede 26 country , asking the Canada , the Commission European and the Council of cooperation of the Gulf Arab , has constantly criticized the sacrifices of the Canada .
the promise made in the speech of the Throne is encouraging .
however , we have of the lifeline on the plates .
honourable senators , the fact that the speech of the Throne talking insuffisamment of the problem of the Immigration ill?gale to the and by the Canada me has frankly many g?n? .
we know that order of be prosperous during the next millennium , the Canada must continue of draw of the immigrants of the world around .
he is however potent that our country not atteigne not his objectives further to the number of immigrants received .
the Canada has drew 13 per of immigrants of least in 1998 that to the during of the year modified .
we seem know of the difficulties grievous for draw of the workers and of the professionals competent .
however , that not means not that we find close the eyes on the problem growing of the Immigration ill?gale to the Canada , in originating of various regions of the world .
he if is of a problem pressing , whose the causes deep resident in our process of recognition of the status of refugee .
honourable senators , the rectitude policy makes difficult the held of a debate open and rationnel on our political and our procedures related to the status of refugee .
any human who lancerait a such debate or who visiting in question the quo quo short the risk of be qualifi?e of racist or of anti - 1915 .
he not commit to nothing of attention that the most of the immigrants ill?gaux not fuient not the persecution for their beliefs religious , political or other , but that this are of the refugees transpired improve their situation economic .
of even , he not commit to nothing of do pointed that these immigrants ill?gaux have legalistic the bill Canadian and that this is a very bad manner of begin a new life to the Canada .
I am enough proud that the Committee Special recent on the security that I have chaired gave identified and demonstrated the problem growing of the Immigration ill?gale hosted to the Canada before that he not be very m?diatis? and not atteigne the summum of his m?diatisation the been last .
the Immigration ill?gale to the Canada threat the integrity of any our policy of Immigration .
those who looking to come to the Canada in if soumettant to all the procedures grab the ill?gaux the constructive .
you knows also that a great part of the Immigration ill?gale is the fact of organizations criminal .
not only these organizations are particularly m?chantes , but they doing also pay very sir to the immigrants , to the plans financial and staff , the privilege of come in America of the North .
a great number of these immigrants are reduced to the servitude for pay their debts to the gangs criminals , to the to snakeheads to , who the have fact move disguised to the Canada .
I have been happy of learn that a Justice of London had recently sentenced four passeurs to of the diversion of sentencing variant between 7 and 14 years .
according the documents tabled to the court , the passeurs had extorqu? approximately a million of $ to their clients .
the Justice has qualified their activities of m?chantes , cruellest and unfeeling .
we not do of gift to human in disassociate the eyes on the Immigration ill?gale .
those who norm the more of our laxisme and of our approach na?ve of the determination of the status of refugee are the elements criminals who if livrent to this activity .
we must recognize that the Immigration ill?gale not is not a problem strictly national .
if the Canada means cooperate closely with the government American for modernize our border common during the 21 century , as you the slogan in the speech of the Throne , this modernization must do in sort that our other boundaries becoming least poreuses for the organizations of passeurs .
to my notice , the difficulty not ahead not in our laws , but in their application .
the problems of application have been ladeau to numerous occasions .
the study In by the group of work developed on foot by the former Minister of the Citizenship and of the Immigration has concluded that he not there had not of system effective in place for check the respect of the conditions cut by the officers of Immigration to the claimants of the status of refugee .
in addition , the Department of the Citizenship and of the Immigration not monitors not the corridors and attack of the most of the claimants of the status of refugee , there including the thousands of persons who waiting a audition in Equity of Immigration or who are under the suddenly of a expulsion .
you takes the fingerprints photographed of the claimants of the status of refugee to the points of entry order of power determine if they have a stopped judicial or if they constitute a threat to the security of the state .
however , the officers of Immigration have said to the Committee Senate Special that the training and the equipment dactyloscopiques whose they lags are such that the fingerprints that they taking are to all purposes practices outlive and of usual simply stored .
by therefore , we have need not not of new laws or measures , but of a showing policy and of the resources necessary for put in implement and apply the laws and the measures existing .
the detention of immigrants ill?gaux is clearly a question sensitive .
contrary to the States - United and to of other country , we not emprisonnons not the immigrants ill?gaux to least of have of the reasons of believe that they are of the criminals or that they constitute a threat for the security of the state .
the Minister of the Citizenship and of the Immigration if objects to the detention of the immigrants ill?gaux because that they not have nothing fact of difficulty .
she believe therefore that the emprisonner would of the least contrary to the Charter of the rights and freedoms .
to my sense - and I know that this not is not a opinion popular - the immigrants ill?gaux have fact someone something of difficulty .
they have onto and volunteers violated the legislation Canadian of the Immigration and that should be a reason enough of the emprisonner until to their hearing Current to the recognition of the status of refugee .
however , the process must be heavy .
the decisions must come in time timely .
you not can not evidence of the people during of the months because that you lack of staff for accomplish the work handcuff .
finally , honourable senators , I congratulate the government of if be committed to strengthen the ability of the RCMP and of other agencies of refute the threats to the security public to the Canada and of cooperate with the forces of the Order of other country .
this is commendable , but , I the repeat , he must decide until where you can go .
still there , I am anxious of see the details in the next budget .
honourable senators , to the approach of the new millennium , he agreeable of reflect to the cent past years .
the century who if close has been dismantling by a instability incredible and of the massacres sanglants without precedent occurred essentially to the nationalism inconsid?r? and to the extr?misme Dreams .
this was also a century of progress without precedent .
the people who have lived in rifle not reconna?traient more the world of today today .
he must hope that we have learned of the lessons of the 20 century and that the progress earned we Cohen a new century more fair , least d?chir? by the war and the excesses of nationalism and of ideology , where the freedom economic and policy will respected .
if we have learned our lessons , the next century we r?servera to we and to the world around of the opportunities inimaginables .
finally , honourable senators , in the world complex toward which we we followers , I wish the better of the opportunity to the government , to extend to the power currently and to those who him succ?deront .
he met enormous of wisdom for succeed to the future , many more that by all the years pensioners .
the hon. B . Alasdair Graham :
of elsewhere , I congratulate all the honourable senators who have participated to the a of the more important debates parliamentarians of our history .
I thank in particular the Leader of the government and the Leader of the Opposition for their good words .
I wish to say to the Senator Staunton - Lynch and to all the honourable senators that I their am grateful of their patience , of their good mood and of the quality of the advice who me have been easier during the periods of questions and to of other opportunities when the former - Leader of the government has been called to participate , to the during of the two past years and half , to of the trade sometimes enough vigour .
he there has can - be had few few opportunities where he has been necessary of do appeal to the assistance of colleagues , but I hope that all the honourable senators understand that I me am always tried of provide the information the more specific and the more complete possible account held of the circumstances .
honourable senators , when Vaclav Havel , chairman of the Republic tch?que , has took the speak before the two Houses of the Parliament during of a recent visit to the Canada , he has spoke of a world in full environment of a period of changes radical .
to the more great value , this is the humanity to , has he said , to and the state there for serve the well public in leaving the rights and the freedoms if ?panouir to their maximum . to
he has then leads the Canada , country who find of new Means allowing of pay the world better and has added that to the Ethics Canadian to removes of a deep respect in his country .
the Ethics Canadian is intrigued by many of other country , who the shared .
the chairman Chirac there has fact referring during of the Summit of the Francophonie , to Moncton , when he has described the Canada as met to a vast country who objective and find of the rules of coexisting in the peace and the tolerance to .
as the chairman Clinton , who has developed of side his speech prepared to the Fusiliers - Tremblant and has spoke with his heart of the importance historic of the federation Canadian , we all , who ?coutions , have thought to the manipulation wager on capably has been piousness our country , to the reform and to the justice social , to the compassion and to the commitment to the people .
the commitment Canadian to the well public is a concept who if groups to the heart of this community well special .
he has fact of our society honest , civilis?e and tol?rante a held of hope and of promises for of the million of persons of across in the world .
in listening his wife , His Excellency the Gouverneure general of the Canada , read the speech of the Throne unsuccessful October last , he me is wished clear that the passion national permanent , the passion for a balance and for the service of the population , the heart of this that we are and the emphasis of our origins , rest , in spirit , also vital and dynamic that to the all beginning of our history .
to well of the ways , honourable senators , the speech of the Throne we has propuls?s in the future .
he evidence the seaway to the Canadians who bilious to a real identity , to a real affiliation therefore that to all the values who constitute the touchstone of our identity national in this end of decade difficult and p?rilleuse certainly , but how passionnante and rich in aventures .
now that the government has developed of the Order in the Finance public and that the economy is strong and in full encouraged , we can move to a new era of management public financially responsible , but to face human .
through to the improvement continues of the health financial of the country , we we efforcerons more of increase the income disposable of the households Canadian and of allow to the businesses of the country of better support the competition in the economy based on the knowledge .
we have began to credit the taxes even before the deleting of the deficit budget .
our strategy balanced we has licences of reduce the taxes of someone 16,5 billion of $ on three years and , by the even opportunity , of rayer600 100,000 Canadians of the roles of tax federal , all in doing of the investment key in of the sectors as the acquisition of knowledge and the health , therefore that the assistance to the boyhood , of the sectors who are really important for the Canadians . We know however that the cuts of taxes not constitute that a part of the ?quation .
the Canadians if waiting to many more of the government .
they preventing the concept that the government not is that a percepteur of taxes and a abide - that he not think that to the results to short term and to the performance net .
the Canadians not want not of great 1954 between the rich and the poor .
if they have agreed the durs inaction of the past years , quarter that they had the duty of the do in as that citizens of our great country , they have constantly fact know to the powers public that the insurance - illness Universal , by example , not is not n?gociable .
they have r?affirm? that the insurance - illness Universal step a touchstone of the identity Canadian .
of the care of health affordable and of quality are a characteristic of the life to the Canada .
this is a Gallery of our society , the expression of the compassion who fact of the Canada a country if single .
in the speech of the Throne , the government Liberal repeat his commitment firm to maintain the a of the best plans public of the world .
to the heart of our efforts in Equity of Innovation if find the instituts Canadian of the health who expect the promotion of the research medical to the pots forefront of the Technology in all the regions and all the disciplines and who headache a grant of 500 million of $ .
the government means work with his partners provincial and other on of the approaches beneficial in Equity of care to home , of insurance - pharmacare and of Benefit of services order of guarantee that the Canadians lags of the better system of health possible .
honourable senators , we are to the enter of a new century .
the knowledge and the Innovation are the pierres angulaires of the success in the world informatis? .
the speech of the Throne we move a vision of a country who is prepared to go the opportunities educational by a world where the knowledge is synonyme of power .
in the village occurring , our researchers are in competition with those of the world around , and not not simply with those to the wide local .
they are in competition in a economy , a market world .
we know strong well that that has of the impact important on the policy government because that we missions to a won to the wide World , a won where the vision national is vital , where the partnerships play a role key and where the government highlights in place a structure for better covering the energy extraordinary of the Canadians of all the walks of the society .
he has onerous for that work actively in partnership with our universities and our laboratories , our industries ax?es on the know , the provinces , our communities , therefore that our organizations volunteers and our agencies Cultural who doing a work excellent and extraordinary .
the government has recognized that all the Canadians must have access to the acquisition continues of the know and power if unused of the promise that represents the revolution hamstrung .
we believe that the communities branch?es not are not and not can be the apanage of those for who the know is synonyme of power .
they owned to all the Canadians .
our strategy who intended to plug the Canadians will of the Canada the country the more branch? of the world and she share of the principle that the future of our country will closely Related to the creation of a society fair and united in the possible of access to the information .
in the framework of this strategy , of the initiatives as Rescol , the Program of access community and the program Ordinateurs for the school have licences to the Canada of become a real democracy represents on the know , a place where all the Canadians have the possible of travel in first class on the Highway of the information .
convinced that the Room of class is the drives of our democracy represents on the know , we have developed on foot the Strategy Canadian for the equality of the opportunity , who has helped of the hundreds of thousands of Canadians since 1998 and who includes the grant for the savings - studies , the grant for purposes of study and the scholarships of the millennium .
we have developed in place a infrastructure goals to the research .
this is why we impatience our support to the regard of the advice granting and we we lan?ons in a new business audacieuse , be the creation of the 2 100,000 chaires of excellence in research of the 21 century in the universities Canadian .
the chairman of the University of Toronto , Robert Prichard , has pointed that this initiative to she only ?quivalait to streams the staff enseignant of a great university almost of the day to the next , a gain net of drain incommensurable .
as the Prime Minister the has said :
a place where a environment widest and a good quality of life hand of fine , a place where our young understand that gain not is not only a question of share of market , but well a question of value , of service and of commitment to our roots .
a country who has a Senators moral and whose the citizens are profoundly to create a society World sustainable and a world better enracin? in the soil rich of the humanisme .
this are our children who we sung there .
they we sung there with their genius and their dreams , with their hopes and their love , with their ability and their ingenuity , with their eyes great open on a world better .
however , the challenges who if looming before them are of size .
their responsibilities are huge .
honourable senators , this are them , our children , who must conqu?rir the future .
the government has took a commitment others the babies and the children of the Canada .
we we are incurred to their allow of departure of the good foot in the life .
we we are incurred to their offer a homeless , of the food and a environment widest .
we want allow to the parents of move the more of time possible with their children during the months who followed their birth .
we want help the parents who must too often do of the choice difficult between their responsibilities professional and family .
we want put on foot a regime legal who allow of ensure the well - be of the children in case of separation or of divorce of the parents .
we want back more of money in the Budgets of the families Canadian in reducing the taxes .
yes , our children have of the rights .
they have the right of hope .
they have the right of dream .
they have the right to the equality in this wonderful country who is the ours and who represents a symbol of hope and of promises for of the million of persons to the world , the Canada .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , before of do my comments in this debate on the speech of the Throne , I like all of first offer my congratulations and my best wishes to his Excellency the Gouverneure general to the beginning of this new mandate .
these 407 Canadians assume a great privilege and a enormous responsibility .
they serve to them only 30 million of Canadians in our Parliament .
following few - concerns of the questions who not cessaient of me come to the spirit in handcuff on the speech of the Throne and in handcuff on the Parliament : how if includes the ship of the state to the eyes of the 407 parliamentarians Canadian who are mercy of the monitor ?
is - this that the practice of the freedom is more strong or more low ?
the Canada that we suspended after our stay to the Parliament will he better ?
in response to these questions , I have been prompting to the conclusion that our freedoms to the Canada sending on the basic of a sort of shamrock of institutions fundamental .
the more high decision to the country , the Court Supreme of the Canada , is the target of attacks corrosives of the share of some cercles .
some of the attacks the more violent against the judicial are the fact of members Reform of the other place .
in his response to the speech of the Throne , the Leader of the Party Reform in the other place to said follows :
... the courts have of more in more empi?t? on the prerogatives of the Parliament to the point where you can say that he is impossible of interpret the speech of the Throne before of have read extend of the courts .
spent well , honourable senators , some auditeurs have could find that fun .
of other have can - be found that this was a proposal original or charming .
personally , I not have not found that fun .
I not have not found more fun that the Leader of the Party Reform in the other place if terribly to bombing of criticism the courts of various representations for the judgments prominent in their assessment of the measures taken by the governments federal , provincial or territorial , by report to the Charter of the rights and freedoms .
this was as if the courts were in someone sort responsible of the existence of the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms .
I rappellerais quickly to the Canadians that he has onerous the whatsoever of the two Houses of the Parliament and of nine legislatures legislation provincial for that be agreed the Act constitutional of 1982 .
he important that we , parliamentarians , ?valuions the vision of the government and the programs who in clauses for determine if each of these programs achieving our courts in of the situations more difficult or least constant .
when I have travelled the speech of the Throne , nothing in this last not me has satisfied that the government had other something to offer that a program vacuum .
the government seems avoid the criticism political serious in tactical this strategy .
he entrusted to the courts the tasks constant who consistent to interpret of the laws very general or too famous .
the government not has not known do evidence of enough of leadership , not has not had the vision policy and legislative necessary for do in sort that the Parliament works of the manner portion to the origin .
this who night more to the independence and to the role of the power judicial these last time , this is that some levels of government seem difficulty understand the report who should ceased between the power executive and the power judicial .
the honourable senators have followed very carefully the judgment that has realized the Court Supreme in the case Marshall .
this judgment illegality some rights abrogate of treaties and has resulted of the consequences very d?plorables in the province that I represents , the New - Brunswick .
during this time , the Prime Minister wisely the possible that the Court Supreme retienne his judgment in the case Marshall enough long for allow to the government of adopt the regulations necessary for reduce the levels of hostility .
even if we valuable all to avoid this hostility , we were always to the taken with the question of meddling policy in the business of the more senior court of the country , who shows clear how the power executive starts to play of the muscle in the field judicial and deposited of institutions who doing part of our form of democracy Parliamentary .
honourable senators , he is dangerous that a Prime Minister request to the courts of do their business of manner to promote the regime in place .
the bill is the bill .
he not must or the plier or the adapt for that she convey the case of a party policy who is to the power .
to this separation least net between the executive and the judicial , he must add the reaction jerk of a great number of parliamentarians , particularly to the other place .
since the time that I am to the Senate , I have rarely , and I doubt even that this be came , heard a appeal for resolve of emergency a problem serious of Order policy or social in having Order to the clause of exemption of the Charter .
yet , we differ often the people of the other place say that the clause of exemption can be used for bending a problem .
the Parliament must take well Access when a such proposal is worded .
honourable senators , I consider the Parliament as a of the three major institutions divesting the fiscal of the freedom to the Canada .
a review of the number of days of sitting of the various legislatures legislation and of the two Houses is strong lot .
feelings to the behind that the government has developed to hold the rentr?e Parliamentary this fall .
the House of the Commons , the institution who is supposed incarner the democracy to the Canada , seat in average least of 120 days each year .
some parliamentarians if looking why they should if strive of be attendance here and think that this is a endorses loss of time of sit to the Parliament because that the government to the power not if soucie not the MOU of their notice .
in well of the case , even of simple members of the government if grab retir?s of a Committee by example in preface of retribution for if be contrary to the power central .
these people - there rightly the rules parliamentarians as nothing of more that of the obstacles to preferred in the too of objectives supporters .
he there also those who are of notice that the St. of the saints , words said the Block Langevin , has all fact for mess the measures and the decisions who are taken by the government present in the framework of the Parliament .
why the Prime Minister and the ministers of the cabinet not want - they not that the Parliament seat ?
the response is obvious , honourable senators .
deprive the Parliament of his ability of study of the measures legislation and of important questions of today is the technical who has been used by the government present for spokesmen the prerogative of this institution .
a file , by example , we give the evidence that the Block of the Centre not is not prepared to allow to the Parliament of if carry of his task .
if the you if touch to the context surrounding the Agreement final nisga' has , spoken between the nation nisga' has and the province of British - British , you note that he has been signed by the two parties after have been adopted by the Assembly legislative of the British - British and agreed by the Nisga' committee .
his Hon. the Speaker Acting :
I must interrupt the hon. Senator Kinsella and him attention that the period of time allocated for his speech is past .
honourable senators , the Authorized of continue is - she granted ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , before that the Parliament gave had the opportunity of excellent the treaty nisga' has , the Minister of the Affairs Indian the had already signed .
the obligation of pay of the accountability to the Parliament irrite many the Prime Minister and his cabinet , who is became his group of reflection private .
to the within of the cabinet , the Prime Minister not if spend more of be the Prime among his peers .
the nature dissembled of the government if applaud also to all the levels .
the cabinet r?prime the participation policy and the contribution of the members of front - benchers , of the members of the Opposition , of the committees and of the citizens .
to the level basic , the parliamentary of accountability to the Parliament by the occupants of the Block Langevin is quasi nowhere .
this attack fundamental lanc?e against the responsibility others the Parliament is troubling and deserves that the you if request if the speech of the Throne clarifie or not the fact that the government is always responsible others the Parliament .
in our form of government , d?riv?e of similar of Westminster , the responsibility brief is the cornerstone cornerstone of the practice Parliamentary and , in this paradigm of government , he is felt rodents that the cabinet or the Prime Minister dominent the service policy of the Parliament without that the members of the two Houses not ensure guarantee consulted .
I like do pointed the impuissance of the government to prevent the erosion of our system policy in quote the university Philip Norton who , speaking of the failure of the government to if driver as the demands the principle of the responsibility , wrote that with the years , the instruments of the Parliament if are ?mouss?s .
he declare :
the government is also became more r?ticent to negotiates his information to the House .
[ ... [ huge powers centralis?s intensity more to those that the you associate normally to a dictatorship autocratique that to those of a government democratic .
and that :
the Parliament is the forum central for discuss of the use and of the abuse of power policy .
I like in ending speak of this third sector to the service of our democracy , this is - to - say extend of the agencies volunteers and not Government .
I have been Whip , honourable senators , of see that the speech of the Throne not knowing plans reference to this next Lifelong of the role of the agencies volunteers in the world .
you not find no support breaking or losing of the agencies volunteers of the share of the government in place .
this is rather the contrary .
almost all the promises that the you groups in the speech of the Throne have relates to a legislation whatever business by the government central .
since the Nations Nations have said the year 2001 Year international of the agencies volunteers , he me seems , honourable senators , that the government would could do a effort for do share of the clause of our country to highlight the importance of the agencies volunteers not Government .
in conclusion , honourable senators , I like return to the professor Donald Savoie , whose we have spoke to several occasions in of other opportunities , and to his book released recently under the payments Governing from report Centre .
in a analysis tranchante of the powers of the Prime Minister and of the changes Own in the powers to the Canada , the professor Savoie states :
the cabinet , all as the Parliament , is now beyond .
the real debates political if boat of more in more elsewhere , and this is also the case of the decisions who are often taken to the during of the meetings federal provincial of the first ministers , during the meetings roadblocks that the first ministers boat during the prohibit of team Canada , in the office of the Prime Minister , to the Council private , to the Department of the Finance , in the agencies international and to the during of mountains international .
nothing not seems indication that the human who holds all the cartes , be the Prime Minister , and the agencies centraux who him created of focus the power policy to the centre , shifted the intention of change what that this be .
the Prime Minister of the Canada is little submitted to the control institutional , of the least to the within of the government , who the International of act to his preface .
account held of this change of paradigm , you can very well understand the frustration of the members , and sometimes even of the senators , who not have nothing to say to the level of the implementation to the point of the political , and to who you give the Order of do current a initiative of the government , often even without reflection no .
honourable senators , the speech of the Throne is the mechanism who allows to the government present of do share of his way of see the country and of give the lately to the operating of this institution .
he is clear that the bases same of our democracy Parliamentary are endangered and that the you has not fact great - something for drama the damage .
the hon. M. DeWare :
honourable senators , we , to the Senate , are all very aware of the importance of the education post as for the Canadians individually that for the Canada in his together .
those who fr?quentent the colleges , the universities and other institutions of education post in immunities of the benefits incommensurables .
that includes the benefits financial who created to the graduates of reach to a level of life better for them - same and their families .
that includes also of other benefits least tangibles but all also important in words of quality of life , who created also to the graduates of play a role essential in the contribution of their communities .
these benefits if transmettent then to the economy and to the society Canadian under the form , by example , of revenues tax more high , of economies of costs of the programs social and of cohesion social increased .
still more important of our days is the advantage competitive that a population active workforce give to the Canada in the economy World .
the businesses of the sectors in full growth of the knowledge and of the Technology of forefront investiront more probably in a country where they can convincing of the graduates well trained ?moulus of excellent institutions of education post .
he is obvious that the government federal recognizes him also the role crucial of the education post to the Canada .
in the speech of the Throne , he has recognized to the advantage that represents for the Canada a labour - of implement who is the more workforce to the world to .
the government has also claimed that , to the during of the three past years , he has took of the measures for learn party of this advantage .
the speech of the Throne has underlined of the measures who recommended to facilitate the savings - studies for the children and has mentioned the scholarships of studies Canadian of the millennium who , according the government , improve to pay more affordable the studies coll?giales and academic .
he has also mentioned the relief of the mechanism of reimbursement of the debts ?tudiantes and the improvement of the measures tax for promote the learning participating .
in fact , I believe that he has spoke of to strategy to in ?voquant the together of these measures .
the government said now that he account continue of if support on this strategy in conclusion several initiatives .
the speech of the Throne knowing the great announcement that the government federal :
... ship of the partnerships with the other governments , the agencies public and private therefore that with the Canadians and the delay , order of establish a plan of action national in Equity of skills and of learning for leXXIe century .
this plan instrument the focus on the learning participating , if tone to the problem of the low literacy home the adults and provide to the citizens the information whose they have need for take of the decisions pressed in view of parfaire their skills .
honourable senators , the speech of the Throne has statement three components of this plan of action , but I hope sincerely that of other if there ajouteront soon .
more specifically , the government has said that he commission with his partners order of :
d allow to the Canadians of fund more nervousness the learning participating ; and
d provide of the information to the wide of the Canada on the markets of the work , the skills necessary and the opportunities of training to departure of a consists single , accessible by Internet , by telephone , or in human in all the communities of the country .
honourable senators , all these measures can be very valid .
a action in these three areas broad , who have been cern?s he there has almost of two years by the Committee Senate Special on the education post , if imposes recognize and is attendue since long .
I wish also to congratulate the government of if be committed to improve the infrastructure of the know in creating of the instituts Canadian of research in health , in rolls his support to the advice granting and in encouraging the universities and the instituts of research of the Canada to modern the cooperation international in Equity of research , even if the details are , I the repeat , enough obscurs .
after all , the R - D is a other sector key that has mentioned the Committee Senate Special of the education post .
I have found with happy that , pursuant to several recommendations of our Committee , the government seems recognize that he worth the worthy of draw of the researchers of Prime plan and of encourage our graduates to continue their career to the Canada rather that of if exiler .
we must pay the situation more innermost for that our graduates of studies post remain to the Canada order of ensure the advantage competitive that we have through to our labour - of implement workforce .
account held of the attention more great who is granted to the drain of the drain of the Canada , whose the media speak many , this intervention is particularly timely .
in a study that he has made recently , the Conference Board of the Canada has said that the drain of the drain , who is of more in more important , threat of vider the pool of workers qualified to the Canada .
of more , the Prime leader of Newbridge , John Roth , has mentioned that his company need leave the Canada if nothing not is fact for Outbreak the exit of capital human .
doing pointed that he rest to the Canada only 7 per of the managers senior of Newbridge , he would said , according the daily Ottawa Citizen of the 12 November , this who following :
to what good have a seat social to the Canada when the more great part of the team of the leaders of the company is part ?
account held of the fact that 22 100,000 employees of Newbridge working to the Canada and that , each year , the company commitment the quarter of the engineers graduates trained to the Canada , you not can take that to the lightly .
even Statistics Canada , that you has criticized for have minimized the importance of the drain of the drain , has admitted that the graduates Canadian who if pertinent to the south of the border are often the best , the more brilliant .
even if several causes have been relev?es for explain this migration tragic , he is clear that the system of education post to the Canada is a factor .
I remind to the honourable senators that the Ottawa Citizen of the 12 November attribuait also Mr. Roth the note next :
the quality of the dipl?mes in genius and in technology Awards to the Canada is excellent , but I fear that she not drop to because of the funding inad?quat of the system of education .
honourable senators , we must we ask if the measures that the Liberal quiet in the speech of the Throne backed , as the said the government , for establish to a strategy heartened to exploit the advantage that represents for the Canada a labour - of implement who is the more workforce to the world to .
in fact , a time implementation in implement , this strategy sufficient she to maintain the quality of our labour - of implement workforce ?
I think that he must do many more in the sector of the education post for achieve the results that the government we has promised .
I chair favourite that the speech of the Throne we move a little of substance for enrober these words to the way who if want rassurants .
I chair still better loved that he there be question of some sectors of the education post that the government seems have completely overlooked , of the sectors who , to my notice , relieve a importance capital if we want advance on the plan of the know to the enter of the 21 century and not not accused a backsliding or , with a little of fortunate , do simply of the on - place .
in the looked of the comments made Mr. John Roth , of Newbridge , I want speak more particularly of the funding of the education post to the Canada .
the Committee whose I getting part has qualified of extremely priority the assistance that the government federal and the provinces overwhelmingly to the education post .
the Committee has also recommended that to the government federal , all in muddy to meet the skills provincial , renouvelle his firm commitment in the sector of the education post to .
the under - funding of the universities and colleges Canadian , due in part to the cuts designed the Transfer Canadian in Equity of health and of programs social , has resulted , between other things , a increase of the fees of tuition , a deteriorating of the equipment and of the infrastructure physical therefore that a inability of draw the members of the body professoral the more qualified in the institutions post of a coast to the other .
the fees of tuition high continuously including of pay the education post inaccessible to of many students Canadian .
the perspective of obtain his diploma and of be then cribl? of considerably debts of studies that the scholarships of the millennium not continuously hardly of reduce many can , by example , be a part dissuasif crucial .
if he is important of put of the loans and of other forms of assistance to the clause of the students , he must however limit the are that a student should have to borrowing .
I me m?fie of the promise that fact the government in the speech of the Throne of facilitate the funding of the education permanent .
if he committed simply help the students to borrowing more of money and to decrease their debt , I not believe not that this be the solution .
this would put the hub before the boeufs .
however , if the government if move of give more of scholarships or of enemies correspondence of debt , this promise me para?tra more positive .
the Canadians will impatients of see to the during of the two next years this that the government has to the fair to the spirit .
in addition , we have extremely forward of see how the government and his partners expect in sort , as the provides the speech of the Throne , that the skills of the skills suive the pace of the evolution of the economy .
I hope sincerely that that not if restrain not to cerner the professions , the crafts and the jobs in capably you will need of graduates in the years to come , though that be a business important .
this initiative should rather rest on of the measures concrete designed to help the students to obtain the education and the training necessary for satisfy these needs .
I the repeat , the Canadians follow of almost this that the government federal will to the during of the two next years to this regard .
I believe that the Canadians not should not have to expect two years before that the government du the promises that he has made in the speech of the Throne regarding the education post .
I remind to the government that he must act soon now in this sector criticism .
I remind also to the senators that this report of the Committee is already old of two years and that he was pressing of the table .
the Senator Graham has been very generous in promises on the future of the education to the Canada .
he is very eloquent .
he there has two years , this are of the words of despair that the students , the educators and the researchers we had Tongues on the state of the education to the Canada .
this not was not a picture pleasant .
he is therefore time that the government consider the education as a priority in his program for the new century .
I must really congratulate the Senator Graham for the comments that he has presented today today .
honourable senators , I could speak length of the education post and of the education permanent because this are there of the questions who me boat to heart .
I hope in have the opportunity in a poised future .
I will however move to the other aspects of the speech of the Throne that I want address , this is to say the Access and the right of visit of the children .
he agreeable , all of first , of do a sure historic .
I have had the honour of be member of the Committee Joint Special on the Access and the right of visit of the children , formed in October 1997 .
the government had created this Committee order of duties a promise that he had made for if ensure that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology , whose I was chairman to the then , consider the new lines guidelines federal on the pension food for children .
the 23 members of the Committee , representative five parties , have therefore spent the year next to hear of the hundreds of witnesses and to study the serious questions regarding the families affected by a separation or a divorce .
in December 1998 , the Committee has tabled his report entitled : to Integrity the love of the children to .
the report accused a long series of recommendations designed to recentrer on the child the system adversatif who properly for the Access and the right of visit of the children .
the more important recommendation proposed of the changes grateful that the mother and the father altering all two continue to play a role important in the life of their children .
these recommendations were centr?es on the concept of Access shared , this who means the taken of decisions Joint and the agreement between the parents further to the sharing of the time and to the arrangements r?sidentiels .
through to the Access shared , the father and the mother remain actively investment in the care to give to the children .
in May 99 , the Minister federal of the Justice has released the response detailed of the government to the report of the Committee .
I have been pleased of learn that the government if step to support the main recommendations of the Committee Requesting a approach to the right of the family rather centr?e on the child in the case of separation and of divorce .
we were all well f?briles , and even exalt?s , the day where we have learned that the Minister going put in application our recommendations .
... with his partners provincial and territorial , he if emploiera to reform the right of the family and to strengthen the plans of support to the families order that , in of the situations of separation or of divorce , priority be given to the needs and to the best interests of the children .
this or shows clear that the government recognizes that the Access of children and the access to those - side relieve a importance capital for well of the Canadians and that the concerns Impediment to the system present not dispara?tront not .
I hope that the government has the intention of speed his implementation in implement denies of the recommendations on the sharing of the task parentale contained in the report to Integrity the love of the children to .
after all , the speech of the Throne harsh usually the priorities of the government for the session whose he commit of point of departure .
account held of rumour recent transpired that of the election federal general will there of here 18 months , well before 2002 , the Canadians could if expect to of the progress more quick .
I hope that this not are not of false hopes , but , met given the peerage performance of the government in this who respect the questions of Access and of access , I have well afraid that they not ensure disappointed .
however , you can always hope .
between - time , of the hundreds of children not will not heard and ressentiront the pain of households bris?s .
honourable senators , I me delighted of have had the opportunity of speak on these two questions of the recent speech of the Throne , who in contains , well heard , many of other .
of other senators have already strong well underlined some aspects of the speech and of other the imiteront without doubt .
in preface of conclusion , I like express the hope that the government listen and that he incorporated account of the concerns well hands and of the suggestions reasonable of my colleagues least of this side - side of the chamber .
bill of bill on the Assent Royal
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
- honourable senators , I must explain of first this that the this bill of bill not is not .
contrary to the fanfare who have circul? recently in the media and elsewhere , he not provides not the abolition of the ceremony of the Assent Royal such that we the know and who is observed here since 1867 .
the bill of bill , addition that he discretionary the ceremony traditional , pourvoit to a procedure different , to know a statement written , similar to similar who is followed to the Kingdom - U and in of other country of the Commonwealth .
the held of the ceremony traditional would required in the case of the Prime bill of bill of appropriation presented during of a session and to the least a time by year civil .
the honourable senators who were attendance to the then if recall that a bill of bill to little almost identical to the bill of bill S - 7 , the bill of bill S - 19 , had been presented to the Senate by the Senator Murray , then Leader of the government , in July 1988 .
the Senator Doody had open the debate to the step of the second Reading few days more later .
the debate had reprinted in September but had been of short length because the priorities of the majority to the Senate were then elsewhere and not were not foreign to the disbanding of the Parliament the 1 October .
the arguments advanced by the Senator Doody he there has 11 years are still valid today today and a great part of my arguments are drawn of the unto .
the last effort in this sense has been fact to the Senate to the during of the last session before of be , him also , victim of the prorogation .
my remarks will therefore similar to those that I had made to the then .
maintain the ceremony of the Assent Royal such that we the know and Authorize a statement written as posture is a about who has been raised to the Senate to of many occasions .
in 1983 , the Senator Frith has presented a inquiry regarding the desirability of include of the procedures of Alternative for the statement of the Assent Royal for the bills of bill .
to the following of a recommendation made in March 1985 by the Committee Special on the reform of the House of the Commons , the Committee McGrath , further to the Adopted of a new procedure for the Assent Royal , the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure , chaired by the Senator Molgat , has recommended of the changes transmission in the even sense .
a Reading careful of the debate on the report presented by the Senator Molgat evidence a support General for the idea , but a disagreement further to the manner of the put in application .
you has found a solution in showing the bill of bill S - 19 mentioned more earlier , a bill of bill who is death to the Paper in reason of the prorogation least of three months more later .
the bill of bill S - 7 , as the has fact the bill of bill S - 19 , resumed the principles of this report .
the section 5 of the Act of interpretation limit that the Assent Royal foundation to the date of entry in force of a bill , to the condition that no no other date not be set .
well that the ceremony of the Assent Royal as such not be submitted in no text of bill , the book of Beauchesne in give a descriptif .
the Clerk Deputy of the Senate is responsible of his organization mat?rielle .
the Canada is the only country to have sovereign this ceremony official who require the presence of the sovereign or of the Governor General or of their representative .
the report McGrath follows that to the Canada continues of do appeal to a practice abandoned by the Parliament British in 1967 .
in fact , no other country of the Commonwealth not the has remained . to
to the Kingdom - U , the Assent Royal has required the presence of the monarque until in 1541 , when the Lords commissioners have been mercy of represent the sovereign .
as we the know all , the Parliament if usage of three entities , the Queen , the Senate and the House of the Commons , each met vital to the enacted of a bill of bill .
our ceremony of the Assent Royal rassemble these entities for the last step of the process sometimes long who reciting the Adopted of a bill of bill .
well that the Queen not refuses not the Assent , he must all of even the ask .
a commentateur has wrote that the Assent Royal is always a formality necessary , but nothing of more that a formality .
I fear , all as of other , that this who should be a event important not be became a ceremony of routine who not raises that a low curiosity home those who if find to in be witnesses by accident .
too often , the Governor General not can be present , and he is difficult and disassociate of find a Governor General Acting to short notice .
too often , the Acting must expect beyond - beyond of the hour convenue , in reason of deliberations incidental of the Senate .
the members attendance are usually least many that the Allison , particularly if the Assent is portion after the adjournment of the House .
a Assent Royal given later a Thursday after - afternoon means that little of senators will attendance .
he Jr. a climate of indifference , rather that of respect , others a ceremony who , well that she be in great part a formality , is however essential , and who we remind the evolution of the regime Parliamentary to the during of the centuries .
some argue that the Assent Royal is altogether and should all simply be dropped .
I not me bothersome not in this debate today today , except for say that , in the legislation where the Assent Royal is exig?e , staffs - the as she the deserves in subject to the ceremony with respect in reason of this that she means , rather that of the consider as a interruption inopportune of the business parliamentarians .
not would - he not preferable of reduce the number of the ceremonies traditional to the during of a session ?
in providing a procedure different , the Parliament approuverait , in fact , the importance of the ceremony traditional that represents the Assent Royal in in doing a opportunity special , well denies and to which assisteraient several persons , rather that a obligation whose the repetition dilue the latitude .
the Opposition to this bill of bill come of those who concerned that this not be that the pre of the end of the ceremonial such that we the know today today .
the bill of bill S - 7 keeps yet account of these fears .
the other procedure who is proposed introducing to allow a Assent Royal not traditional to the opportunity , when he is difficult for the involved of if hear on a time who agreeable to all , and therefore to ensure that he there gave more that a small of parliamentarians who there meetings .
this problem become still more precinct when the House , in the framework of the delicacies of the wrote Parliamentary , split in the Block of the Western , and will followed by the Senate when she retournera in the Block of the Centre .
of after me , he if is there of a reason enough for study carefully this bill of bill .
honourable senators , I have took care of not not present a argument long and detailed in favour of the bill of bill S - 7 , met of notice that these considerations of Order General suffiraient to uncontroversial the interest .
( on the motion of the Senator Cools , the debate is adjourned . )
the communities francophones and acadiennes outside Quebec
the deteriorating of the services in French - Inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Jean - Maurice Simard , having given notice the Wednesday 3 November 99 :
honourable senators , such that heard between the two leaderships in this House , and I hope that all the senators will of agreed , I recognize the speak to my colleague , the Senator Jean - Claude Rivest , for read my speech .
my speech could exc?der the time Allocation of ten minutes .
the hon. Jean - Claude Rivest :
honourable senators , I like of first say all the happy that I have of me associate to this speech , of a way a little unusual , in the framework of the procedure of this House .
as the hon. Senator Simard just of the indication , he me has asked of give Reading of the communication that he wanted do to the Senate to the opportunity of the Tabled of a report extremely revert .
I invite of elsewhere the together of the honourable senators to in take knowledge .
this is really a reflection very thorough and very document?e of the share of the Senator Simard on the condition of the communities francophones and acadiennes to the Canada .
his Hon. the chairman :
honourable senators , the leave is - she granted ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Rivest :
honourable senators , I me directed to you today today for you maintain of a quibbling who transpires enormous of importance for me and for the country .
I want you speak of a question who me keeps to heart since always , a question of the more fundamental in which I have invested a great share of my action policy : the development and the healthy of the communities francophones and acadiennes of the Canada .
to the term of a reflection personal of several months , accompanied of research and of consultation serious and depth , I you states that my concern further to the prospects of future of these communities are clearly if major that I seriously you speak of a emergency national .
when I you talking of emergency , when I say that she is of dispute national , I me based not only on the result of our research , but I puise also in this fashioned of knowledge and of experiences that the you myth in more of 30 years of life public .
I me according to this instinct that we d?veloppons all for succeed to accomplish , to the better of our opportunities , this who is to the extension to our loosely to .
and all , in my be , me said that if we not act not all of following , with any the conviction and the energy whose this Parliament , whose this country , are capable , he will soon too later .
we regards , by refusal of act , by indifference , in the comfort of the paradigmes of our tours of ivoire political , failed the promise of a country who would could be if great , if he had only had the courage of the be .
because that if , a day , altering away these communities francophones and acadiennes , who have contributed to list a identity Canadian intrigued and respected across in the world , this will in great part because that the leaders of their country their discuss turned the walk .
not is - this not the ultimate paradox ?
we concerned of speak home we of this who raises the admiration , the respect and even the envy of any the planet .
we have afraid of remind to the Canadians that the alliance f?d?ratif who has seen welfare their country is a alliance of a tolerance without precedent , between two Peoples vou?s to the principle of their equality step .
to the enter of the year 2000 , we cop CPAs before these dinosaures id?ologues who farm we bring to a era least calling where the Canada of nine provinces on ten was committed r?solument on the seaway of the anglicisation of his society and of all his members , francophones , aboriginal or newly upon .
a policy who we has led all right to this Mr. Andr Laurendeau , of the Comission Royal of inquiry on the bilingualism and the Bilingualism , has called , he there has of that more of three decades , to the worse crisis of our history to , similar of the Canada .
in amount , if the you not talking not of the crisis , this is that she not there not .
if the you not admet not that the situation of the communities francophones and acadiennes of the Canada has reached a point criticism , you not sentira not the need of do what that this be for there rectify .
if the you not fact nothing , you not able not if do criticism of have fact someone something .
and all reaches for the better in the better of the mondes ... as in a conte of f?es .
but , honourable senators , you not if touch not there .
the consigne is that if we we taisons , all the world must if nothing .
this who means say that when the leaders of these communities osent rise the Senators and exposing the abuse whose they are victims , you the instructions of if nothing .
shirts !
you starts of first by feindre of ignore their existence .
but a time the bad time of the endorsements timides past , a time the interest of the media estomp? , you remind soon these fauteurs of unrest francophones to the Order , in their doing understand that the things informatics many better if the you not brasse not too the chaloupe .
you takes the francophones minority in hostages of the power .
this government federal who should be their ultimate advocate , this government referred responsibility the responsibility constitutional , legal and moral of do meet the rights of these minorities , if in takes to the victims rather that to the guilty .
not only refuses he of act , but the power federal the Strike there where they are the more vulnerable .
you cutting their funding .
and the leaders francophones , always proud , but of more in more hungrier , understand soon this that they have to do if they want slipping of this Grosse .
as you said : they rentrent in the rank , they becoming submitted .
you their explain that the things can very well , and many better , if do to in scenes to , that they avanceront more soon as that .
the more r?calcitrants are ?cart?s , you classes for r?gner .
I know that he there in has among you - and recognize in the other House - who if offusqueront of such comments .
you you empresserez of list the programs Government to the support of the communities of languages official , and the milllions of $ who if there rattachent .
you we parlerez of the success of this francophone , of the Year of the Francophonie proclaimed by this government , of the Summit of the Acadie to Moncton , of the Games of the Francophonie planned in the year 2001 , here even , in the region of the capital national .
you if vantera of have celebrated the tenth anniversary of the amendment to the Act on the languages official , who funds to the government federal a responsibility increased others these minorities .
I applaudirai and I you pretend : to Bravo ! to
course that this are of talk and good initiatives .
but I refuserai of go home me , imbu of the satisfaction of the duty accomplished , as of other in this Parliament are tent?s of the do .
because our real duty rest still to do , because that of the lifeline and of the games , he there in will always for already the populace .
but no government not able never if glorifier of observe of this kind , when , in the tranch?es , of the francophones of a bravery implacable continue of struggle against of the forces who dollar to the an?antir .
you can we do all the more talk celebrations of the world , that not r?ussira never to smuggled the truth of a government who refuses of support these francophones , then that this is his responsibility constitutional of the do .
even to the level school , the struggles not are not still finies .
you not hearing not of congratulations of my share when I see the governments provincial if sustains of the d?sengagement of the federal others the minorities for if delivering to of the d?lestages of responsibilities who exclusive or threaten the prior of the francophones .
you not 53,000 never change the sad reality that , more of 30 years after the Adopted of the Act on the languages official , the equality of the opportunity , the equality of the Peoples , real or precipitancy , is far of be In .
you not 53,000 never we do forget that , more of 30 years after that the Commission Laurendeau - Dunton gave recommended the positioned of the bilingualism official for the governments of the New - Brunswick , of the Ontario and of the Manitoba , a only of these provinces has agreed of the do .
the more bigger , the more puissante , the province who live the half of all the francophones of the outside of the Quebec refuses still of recognize the rights of the minority franco - Ontario in the Constitution .
his Hon. the Speaker :
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Rivest :
further to the Manitoba , he will onerous the Court Supreme for him do understand that she gouvernait since almost a century in the ill?galit? total , without rely the incidents disgracieux of 1984 , where the sacked of some politicians provincial if d?cha?nait against the Francos - thinks .
we should rougir of shame to thinking that to the time where I you talking , a Franco - Ontarienne of the behalf of Gis?le Lalonde , with a small team , sillonne this great province in self , for gain of the endorsements to the because of the ench?ssement of the rights of the francophones of the Ontario in the Constitution .
the Department Heritage Canadian him has given the money for the do , me direz - you ?
I d?fie who that this be in this Parliament of accomplish this that Ms Lalonde is in seaway of succeed with a budget of 35 100,000 $ .
and you requesting that you if terribly to genoux before that .
you requesting that the Franco - Ontarians ensure ?ternellement grateful , when we their giving of the bouch?es of lifeline for do our work !
not would - this not to we of go delivering the message of the francophone across to the Canada ?
the amount of the grant granted by the Department of the Heritage Canadian to the movement rehabilitated Constitution is so risible that you would tried of believe that you the has given in souhaitant that he ?chouerait .
this was difficulty know the people of the trempe of those and of those who have chosen of bringing the beacon , others and against all .
this grant not is - she not , however , matching poised of the victim of the federal in the money granted to the communities of languages official ?
where is past the principle of the ?quivalence , yet spent by the Court Supreme in the v. Mah? ?
how can - you hope that the communities carry if expand when they not can benefit of the programs of the state Canadian , many that in considerable the majority ?
yet , wide their trajet of individual , the francophones of the Canada continue of if rise , as of the cerfs - volants , against the wind , against all the flying .
they have believed this government , when he their has said that they were of the citizens equal , of the citizens to share full , that the Canada was also the country of the francophones , that they there had fully their place .
they the have so believed that this is this conviction admired who continues of the bringing to the combat today today , in the hope that , earlier or later , their leaders if joindront to them , in real allies and not in false m?c?nes , for conclusion the implement that they have forgotten of complete .
the time is came for we , in this Parliament , of add all our Senators , all our efforts , all our means to those and those who , by the force of the genuine , cases still and always to challenge the history .
this people refuses of die .
honourable senators , I you request humbly of read the report that I have tabled more earlier today today .
this is a work seriously , sincere , without claim and martyrdom of mired .
I you request of keep the spirit open in businesses these lines , of keep your eyes and your coeurs open .
some article , as some of the comments that I wish today today , not expect not your happiness .
we can however act .
we must act .
I you request of reflect on this from , to the page 38 of the report , who if reads as following :
he is surprising of see that , in despite of the coverage let , who objective well more to usually and to esteem the controversy that to rapporter the good new , the opinion public Canadian , as the note a analysis of the professor Stacy Churchill , is life strongly in favour of the political on the languages official to the during of the 25 to 30 past years .
his analysis the has also led to the conclusion that the authorities governmental have miserably failed in their attempts in view of inform the Canadians of this support .
this is the secret the better touch to the country .
that is - this that that we said ?
to my notice , that we said not only that the Canadians of language English quotes that the francophones shifted their place among them , with their institutions and their services public , but that the only presence of these communities minority to the within of their society fact also part of their own identity Canadian .
be Canadian for them means , between other , accept that around of we , of other Canadians choose of live in the a or the other of the languages official .
that means also that the Canadians understand the difference between the bilingualism individual and the duality linguistic .
human not request to anyone of learn and of speak the two languages official , though we can assume that in a world perfect , this would course the ideal .
I you request , honourable senators , of met this challenge who if valid to the state Canadian .
the unkind is today today favourable to a recognition puissante , r?solue and irr?versible of the francophone Canadian .
the time is came of move to the actions , of declare and of usually a showing national in favour of the equality of the francophones and of the English of the Canada .
former - Minister of the Finance of my province , I if the last to technique that we retournions to the folles Estimates who we have given the deficits of a past still too recent .
but the government is currently in Position financial solutions for beginnings to invest in the construction of the system institutional who occasionally to these communities a fortunate equal of succeed .
because this is a implement to conclusion that we have multitude to the abandonment .
further to me , I believe that this Investment in our hampered French in is a who not would never should be reduced or frein? .
of more in more , all the Canadians liquidity the strengths of the bilingualism and of the federalism .
they have seen of their eyes , to Moncton , recently , how a reputation of openness and of jurisdiction linguistic their newcomers of the doors stood ferm?es on the world , particularly on the Europe , this superpuissance economic in become .
they have heard the Speaker of the France boasting a Canada tolerant , rather that of hire the francophones of the Quebec to the separation - this who was until - there the only remember that several of between them had of a such visitor .
of more in more of Canadians of the majority , also , if concerned of the erosion cultural and linguistic of their fellow minority .
they understand that a Canada without his communities francophones not is more the country whose they are if proud .
you has seen , in the because of the Hospital fought , by example , of the alliances in?dites and inesp?r?es between the community franco - Ontario and of the members of the community English of this province and of elsewhere to the Canada .
that forward - we for understand that the people we has exceeded ?
that waiting the governments of this country and of the provinces for understand that the new generations not want more of war linguistic destructives , that he is time of move to other something , of build with confidence on the bases that we have jet?es he there has 30 years ?
memories - we only why , to the during of the tumultuous years 60 , the Commission Laurendeau - Dunton spoke of the crisis the more serious of our history .
this is that they had including that the country was to the board of the apartheid , that he needed ask of the actions radical , and soon , if the you hoped see the Canada survive to the d?chirements who the mena?aient .
of more in more of these people of the Quebec who if were always identified as Canadians - Fran?ais lines now if say Quebecers of first , if exclusively .
the Quebecers not accept more of be minoris?s to the Canada , they deviendraient dispelled home them .
of the even way , they conc?daient that they not number never their full place in this Canada where their fellow had suffering all the affronts , there where the education in French was still ill?gale .
has you forgotten this who we has wishes to the situation that we conclude today today ?
the first ministers provincial understand - they that this intolerance historic of their own governments is a of the sources of the s?paratisme Quebec ?
the government of Ottawa includes - he that beyond - beyond of all the savantes strategies , of the plans A , B or C against these nasty separatists , he should can - be begin by the pre ?
how of sovereignists r?vent of a country all simply because that you not has never wanted their give extend who their works , because that you has killed their dream Prime to minuses of political assimilatrices ?
honourable senators , I not you ask not of return in front .
however , I you request of you remember , of thrust your wisdom and your reflection of prospects historic .
the report that I you commend contains 42 recommendations , whose 10 recommendations main who make the framework of the plan of toll that we you propose for the communities francophones and acadiennes of the Canada .
the task seems enormous , the challenge insurmontable , but he is to the legislation of the people of this country .
he is to your legislation , to our legislation .
this is a bill of society emballant , positive and generous .
but without the courage of the do , all that , all this that we represent , all this fine d?cor who we live not means nothing say .
when the walls of the Parliament are scarce those of the silence , of the silence on the fate of the more vulnerable , we have lost our reason of be .
I have confidence that you me ?couterez .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . )
( the Senate if adjourned to the Wednesday 17 November 99 , to 13 p.m. 30 . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 8
the Wednesday 17 November 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
' ' '
the Nova - Nova
the price international and national effort by the population of Lunenburg
the reform of the Senate
the agriculture
the hemp industrial - Changes obstacles to the exports toward the States - United
the year international of the persons seniors
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
the union Monetary European
Tabled of the report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign
transport and Communications
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
society of development of the Cape - Cape
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Special
the Committee of selection
Presented of the fifth report
the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations
notice of inquiry
PERIOD PERIOD question
the resources natural
the closure of the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape - Conformity announcement of the synthetic of funds - Position Position of the government
the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape - Conformity bill of bill Authorize disbanding - Changes consequences for the miners and the staff
the Defence national
the closure of the army Cornwallis - Position clawback of the elaborate comm?moratifs of the chapelleSt. George' St.
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King - Position possible of the credit - lease
the Nations Nations
the proposal of the Party Reform of reassess the participation of the Canada - Position Position of the government
the health
the power of regulate the products concerning in the setting of ?quarrissage - Position Position of the government
Order OF orders
the business of the Senate
the Committee of selection
Adopted of the fifth report
the Act on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading
referred to the Committee
visitors of Gallery
Affairs legal and Constitutional
notice of motion Requesting the Authorized of use the documents and evidence collected during of the study of the bill of bill precedent to the purposes of the study of the bill of bill present
visitors of Gallery
Affairs foreign
Authorized to the Committee of until the date of Tabled of his report final on the amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
the business of the Senate
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
Authorized given to the Committee of the Finance national of study the Estimates Supplementary ( A )
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
referred of the credit 25a of the Council private to the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
referred of the credit 10a of the Council private to the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament
the Code criminal Position Act on the system Correctional and the implementation in freedom under condition
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the Committee of selection
study of the third report - Withdrawn of the section
Affairs legal and Constitutional
motion Requesting the Authorized of use the documents and evidence collected during of the review of the bill of bill precedent for the study of the bill of bill present - Continued of the debate
decision of the Speaker
the Conference on the equality and the participation of the women to the life public
inquiry
the federalism and the globalization
inquiry
the situation of the aboriginal and their future
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
transport and Communications
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
the Board of specifications of the environment for the children
Adopted of the motion of institution
the SENATE
the Wednesday 17 November 99
the sitting is met to 13 p.m. 30 , the Speaker met to the Chair .
prayers .
the Nova - Nova
the price international and national effort by the population of Lunenburg
the hon. Wilfred P . Moore :
honourable senators , I rise today today for recognize the price international and national that have received recently the city of Lunenburg in Nova - Nova and his citizens .
the Friday 5 November 99 , the city of Lunenburg has received the price of the port of the year of the American Sail Training Association , of Newport , to the Rhode Island , during of his ninety - seventeenth meeting Annual held to Boston .
the members of the ASTA come of across in America .
this price is left double to the community who amending a support important to the ASTA and recognizes and encourage the navigation to voile .
this is the first time that a port Canadian especially this honour .
to the during of the even meeting , the Captain Daniel P . Moreland , boss of the three - m?ts Picton Castle , of Lunenburg , has been honoured in as that instructeur of navigation to voile of the year by the ASTA .
the Captain Moreland has travelled the world to board of the Picton Castle with a crew formed in majority of novices , when the dock has left the port of Lunenburg in November 1997 for his odyss?e historic of 18 months .
Mr. . of Villiers has given generously the half of his price of 10 100,000 $ to the Library of Lunenburg for the help to continue his excellent work .
we f?licitons and saluons the city of Lunenburg , the mayor Laurence Mawhinney and the counsel , therefore that his charpentiers of ship , his forgerons of Shipping , for his traceurs - patronniers of canoe and his population very hospitals .
we f?licitons the Captain Daniel P . Moreland and Marq of Villiers for their businesses and the price that they have obtained .
the reform of the Senate
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , the week last , the government John Hamm , of the Nova - Nova , has took the legislation who if numbers .
then that we scenes of the season of the illiteracy of 99 , the Assembly legislative of this province has took a initiative very important for protect the security of the public in giving a Position firm to the regard of the semiconductors in state of highest .
in Nova - Nova , these semiconductors are responsible of almost of 40 per of all the Late on the highways .
the government Hamm has employee of new measures who , he the hope , hand accepting the people of driver with of the faculties affaiblies , this who should fall the number of tragedies insens?es and protect the security of the people of the Nova - Nova .
the 1 December , a new legislation legislative will move of two to three years the length of the suspension of the licences of a conducteur recognized found of a second offence for conduct in state of highest .
a third offence eventually a suspension of a length minimum of ten years and a fourth offence if means by a suspension to life of the licences .
the new legislation legislative allow also the suspension administrative and immediate of the licences during a period of 24 p.m. in the case of the semiconductors whose the rate of alcool?mie if ranges between 0,05 and 0,08 .
this government has fact evidence of leadership in giving of the measures who resserrent the laws and who are more tougher to the place of the persons who conduisent in state of highest .
almost all the provinces have now adopted a program of suspension similar formed to the semiconductors in state of highest , and good number of between they have succeeded to reduce of way substantial the number of accidents .
in quality of legislators federal , we can learn many of lessons of the experience of our counterparts provincial who have clearly learned the each of the other .
the Senate is constantly in butte to of the attacks and d?peint by of many persons as met a institution who , according the majority of the Canadians , is needless .
report Continuing Scandal of Canada' St. Senate , in which he declare that the Senate such that he there today today not presented no value real .
honourable senators , responding in 3.2 Mr. Hoy and to the rest of the Canada to what point the work that we derision here is important .
I believe in the reform of the Senate , but of the books and of the sections of the kind whose I just of speak not doing that attiser the calls in favour of the abolition of the Senate .
he is time that we assumions a leadership .
pursuing the example given by the governments provincial as the government Hamm and montrons to all the Canadians to what point the institution whose we do part is valuable .
the agriculture
the hemp industrial - Changes obstacles to the exports toward the States - United
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I will do the point to the about of a question that I have occasion here he there has few weeks .
to this then , a conflict opposait the Kenex Limited , of Pain Court in Ontario , to the customs and to the Agency of fight antidrogue of the States - United .
I am pleased of attention to the Senate that the problem has almost been fully resolved .
then that he rest still few points to resolve , he there has a week , a initial of seeds of hemp in originating of the Canada has received without encombre the customs U.S. .
the Agency of fight antidrogue and the customs U.S. have contribute to not not go of other chargements of hemp exp?di?s toward the States - United by Kenex .
I wish for the moment to congratulate the Department of the Affairs foreign and of the Trade international for the assistance that he has embraced to Kenex in view of resolve this case to the advantage of this business young and dynamic .
my congratulations to Kenex .
this is a good new for the farmers Canadian .
the year international of the persons seniors
the hon. LoisM. Wilson :
honourable senators , the Year international of the persons seniors d?cr?t?e by the Nations Nations hook to his end but , account held of the ageing of the population , the reason of be of this initiative remains full to the eyes of the senators .
he must also give a more great attention to the in?galit?s in Equity of care of health and of well - be that the you follows home the persons seniors to low income , the persons seniors alive only and the oldest women having of the problems of health mental and without home fixed .
the fourth Conference World Annual of the Federation international on the ageing , who has had held to Montreal in September 99 , has issued a statement .
the document if concern of this that the principles that the Nations Nations have adopted in 1991 in favour of the persons seniors not are not still recognized or respected Concludes and that the implementation in implement of the plan international of action on the ageing adopted to Vienne in 1982 suggests still to wanting .
following this that the Committee of the rights of the man of the Nations Nations said in November 1998 to comments of the record of the Canada in the application of the Convention of the Nations Nations Current to the rights economic and social :
... that the Canada submit a below of poverty official and terribly in place to all the levels a program of assistance social who guarantee a quality of life reasonable for all .
during of the meeting who if is held to New York , the country third - mondistes have indicated that only 8,5p. per of their Communities respective vivraient until to 60 years .
in Africa , this form not is that of 3 per , while that she is de24p. per for the Europe .
he responsibility to those who , as we , wish the changeover of a world new of examine of very almost the situation of these continents of the poverty and similar of the ?lots of poverty who exist to the within of the population society of the Canada .
the question of the poverty of the persons seniors must be analys?e in the context of the development , of the Elimination of the poverty and of the exclusion social soulign?s to the Summit world of Copenhagen for the development social , held in 1995 .
after several years of decline , our program of assistance addition - sea is of the least stabilized , but he m?riterait of benefit of appropriation complementary .
he m?riterait also of disseminating his action with similar of the program of relief of the burden of the debt of the majority of the country debt and with the initiatives designed to promote the employment and the health for the persons seniors .
the Nations Nations have been invit?es to organizing in five years a conference World on the ageing , to the during of which will tenure in magazine the progress obviously by the different States for the implementation in implement of their plan of action in favour of the persons seniors .
I am appropriate that the bill will avalis? and that the point that will then the Canada on the situation of his persons seniors d?munies , vulnerable and without homeless will positive .
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
the union Monetary European
Tabled of the report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign
the hon. John B . Stewart :
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when taken - we this report ?
the Senator Stewart :
pursuant to the subsection 97 ( 3 ) of the Rules , I move that the study of the report be placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting .
his Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
( the motion is agreed . )
transport and Communications
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications , regarding the Estimates incurred by the Committee to the during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
society of development of the Cape - Cape
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Special
the hon. John G . Bryden :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Special of the Senate on the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape , which treating of the Estimates incurred by the Committee to the during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report found to the Journals of the Senate of today today .
the Committee of selection
Presented of the fifth report
the hon. L?once Mercier , chairman of the Committee of selection , presented the report following :
the Wednesday 17 November 99
the Committee of selection has the honour of present his
fifth REPORT
pursuant to the section 85 ( 1 ) ( has ) of the Rules of the Senate , your Committee reclassification the hon. Senator Losier - Losier as chairman lengths .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
L?ONCE MERCIER
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when taken - we this report ?
the Senator Mercier :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , I move that this report be examined more later today today .
his Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he of adopt the motion , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( on the motion of the Senator Mercier , the study of the report is placed to the Order of the day more later this day . )
the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations
notice of inquiry
the hon. LoisM. Wilson :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Wednesday 24 November 99 , I call the attention of the Senate on the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the resources natural
the closure of the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape - Conformity announcement of the synthetic of funds - Position Position of the government
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
Monday , the Minister of the preparation natural , Ralph Goodale , has announced that the government federal injectera 70 million of $ in the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape order of keep the society of state in activity until in April 2000 .
he if is of a Reversal full of the share of a government who has supported numerous time that he not there had not of new funds federal available for improve the pension of retirement and the allowance of cessation of employment educational to the miners of the Devco and their families .
the employees of the Devco if are fought during more of eight months for that the government improving the agreement .
the government Liberal has provided 111 million of $ to the purposes of the pension of retirement and of the allowance of cessation of employment , but 340 miners only discuss right to the benefits of retirement and demobilizing to the allowance .
this assistance financial federal to the society houill?re for a second year of back step a Reversal unmitigated .
how the government explain he that he can provide suddenly of the million of $ that he claim not not have order of keep in activity the society that he has the intention of close ?
that means he that the government not has not forsaken the Cape - Cape and that he offered of the funds Commission to the miners of the Devco who altering complete the first year of the new millennium without employment ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I then affirming categorically and without fear of be contradicted that the government of the Canada not has not forsaken the Cape - Cape in the past and not has not the intention of the do to the future .
our commitment others the Cape - Cape if is continued .
therefore , all recently , the government federal , of together with the province , has developed on foot a funds Special of development of 80 million of $ order of help the economy of the Cape - Cape to spanning this period of transition very painful .
the government of the Canada continue of play his role for come in assistance to the population of the Cape - Cape .
in this who respect the 70 million of $ , the closure of the Devco in as that society of state party have held of a manner very phased and very coordinated , to the end of December 99 . says am course that the Senator is to the aware of the very detailed program relatif to the resources human who has been machinery and presented in report with this calendar .
the government had pr?sum? that , for offer this program , he could rely on some revenues revenues of the production of the mine Phalen .
this part of the plan was very important and greatly necessary .
the Senator and of other senators know that the mine has been closed more earlier that expected , in of the circumstances surviving .
the mine has therefore been closed immediately , primarily for of the reasons of security .
to because of this closure immediate , the revenues who him number licences of continue his activities until extending December if are envol?es .
two choice if overemphasized to the government .
the Prime efficient to hear of the revenues for that he can meet the commitments that he had took others the miners and their families in the framework of this program .
I know that the Senator not approuverait not a such solution .
of elsewhere , of many groups of the Nova - Nova , there including of the members of his party , have said that this solution not was not acceptable .
by therefore , the funds have been planned for ensure the withdrawal graduel of the government federal in the exploitation of the mines .
therefore , the people who were speculate of amend their way of life in service of this plan not deemed not their life suddenly boulevers?e .
we are convinced that all if d?roulera as expected and that the Alternative of the revenues revenues of the mining of coal is the solution the more viable .
the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape - Conformity bill of bill Authorize disbanding - Changes consequences for the miners and the staff
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , the bill of bill C - 11 , who allows the sales of the Devco , contains a section who intended to remove a section of the Act on the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape according which the government must take all the precautions reasonable for ensure the well - be of the workers .
if this bill of bill is adopted , the government Liberal will he all simply close the doors of the society , back to the miners a payment single universities to least of a year of activity economic g?n?r?e by the Devco , and if in cop the hands ?
in the case contrary , what initiatives federal will implemented in implement for create of new jobs and for promote a new growth in the economy affaiblie of the Cape - Cape ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , of very major initiatives are in seaway of enforcement , whose some that I have mentioned briefly .
in Equity of development economic , a statute of 80 million of $ who if add to the programs existing , this is a effort appr?ciable .
of even , the assistance granted to the miners and to the population of the Cape - Cape is important .
the Prime Minister if is yet committed to farewell this assistance and you the fact currently .
frankly , I not me getting not of request for the ?lectricien of the Devco who involving a allowance of layoff of 80 100,000 or 90 100,000 $ and who d?crochera a other employment six months more later .
this worker if tirera very well of case .
I me concern however of extend who , to because of many years of work and can - be of a inability partial , will of the difficulty to if least in the new economy .
as I the have said , you revoit this allowance and you attempts of determine if of other measures could be taken , in particular order of help the workers who in have the more need .
the Senator Oliver :
the Minister not has not fact referring to the clause of the bill of bill C - 11 that creating my question Supplementary .
the Senator Boudreau :
except mistake , I me am committed yesterday to back this notice to the Senator Murray .
I will in back also a copy to the hon. Senator Oliver .
the Defence national
the closure of the army Cornwallis - Position clawback of the elaborate comm?moratifs of the chapelleSt. George' St.
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , the hon. Leader of the government to the Senate if recall that in 1993 - 1994 , the government federal has assuring the army Cornwallis .
to the then , you has d?m?nag? the elaborate of the chapelleSt. George' St. to the outside of the basic .
the Leader of the government to the Senate can - he we say when the Department of the Defence national account least these elaborate in the chapelleSt. George' St. ?
the people who have paid for these elaborate , residents of the place and ancient recruits of the basic , want that these elaborate ensure replac?s there where they were .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I known the file whose the Senator talking .
these elaborate have been kidnapping of a chapelle who was unused .
they if find currently to Halifax , who is the more great basic discriminating to the country and whose the chapelle receives of the cop all the days .
you has decided to a sure time of the dramatically in this chapelle for that the people carry the see and the Terms more regularly .
I believe understand that the chapelle of where they stem is of new met , but of way rather sporadique , a or two time by year .
you has decided , for the moment of the least , that these elaborate should stay in a place where they can be substandard and flint by more of people .
of the representations have been Conducted recently and you if circumstances course on the question , but this is there this who has been decided for the moment .
the Senator Comeau :
I have a question supplementary , honourable senators .
the Leader of the government has said that the chapelle of Shannon Park , where the elaborate are now example , commit more often that the chapelle of Cornwallis .
you could can - be compare the figures of fr?quentation , as that if fact sometimes between the House of the Commons and the Senate , for see if indeed the chapelle of Shannon is more fr?quent?e that not the was similar of army Cornwallis .
however , this who is many more important that the fr?quentation of the chapelle , this is the fact that the persons who have offered these elaborate live in the region of Cornwallis and of Digby and that of the thousands of recruits who are fellow by Cornwallis hand if there passed to the spring .
I think that they would very curling of see the elaborate there where they should be historically and logical .
I request to the Leader of support this initiative .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the proposal of the hon. Senator that I me commitment to check the fr?quentation of a institution or of a service church me remind the pr?cepte unto following : to That extend who not has never theology , challenges the first cornerstone to .
I not believe not that I if very inclined to rely the number of persons attended to a whatever service church .
I understand however the sense that the Senator just of express and I not certainly not of in do share to the Minister .
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I have me also a question supplementary .
I could without doubt look the Prime caillou .
if the Minister could know where if find the bancs of the chapelle and if he could see to this that they there ensure r?install?s , the chapelle would can - be a little more fr?quent?e .
the Senator Kinsella :
where are - they ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I could without doubt speak more later to the hon. Senator and find the bancs .
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King - Position possible of the credit - lease
the hon. Gerry Germain :
honourable senators , my question if directed also to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
she has relates to a question that I have raised the 4 November regarding the helicopters Sea King .
I have mentioned to of native occasions , all as the Senator Forrestall and of other to the Senate , the emergency of resolve this question .
I am went until to say - and I the conclusion if we had a government Conservative , NDP - breakaway or Reform - that if nothing not was fact and if he there had a accident , the responsibility in incomberait directly to the cabinet , to the Prime Minister and to the Minister of the Defence national .
as number of other Canadians , I believe that we have forsaken our forces Armed for this who is of their provide a equipment course .
the cancellation of the undertake of the EH - EH has been a decision policy and I not am not sure that they would in service today today if the undertake had been unabated .
however , the Leader of the government has said that I chair soon a response to my question of yesterday .
could - he now me give a response more direct and clear ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , for this who is of the program of Alternative of the helicopters Sea King , in a sense , I can repeat this that I have already said to the Senate .
I have spoke to the Minister of the Defence national , who me has said that he if is for him of the question the more high in Equity of equipment .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
this is this that the government said always .
the Senator Boudreau :
the Minister has obtained a sure success .
the government if is said prepared to Services of the funds for of the programs important , as by example extend of the under - submarines .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
how poorest the modernization ?
the Senator Boudreau :
the Minister me has said that this question is extremely priority for him .
I him have said , as I the attention now to the honourable senators , that I consider this question sensitivity priority .
I opposite to Halifax and he not there has not a city in our country where the military are held in more high believe .
we appr?cions greatly the role that they play and the inaction that they doing daily .
I will certainly support many that I the can all the efforts Process order that the acquisition of the aircraft of Alternative of the Sea King if convey the more earlier possible .
the St. Germain :
honourable senators , I not doubt absolutely not of the intention of the government of essential of the aircraft of Alternative .
this is there the aspect key .
I talking to payments of pilot having a experience active .
if he must ensure 30 p.m. of maintenance for that a apparatus can steal a hour , the honourable senators can if imagine the peerage state of the aircraft in question .
anyone knows a little the helicopters knows to what point they are submitted to of important efforts and constraint .
I say to the hon. Leader that to my notice , we not have of other choice that of rent of the helicopters .
we must serves to our military of the equipment adequate who their allow of secourir of the people who decision of if aventurer in sea to board of a dock - to the broad of the coasts of the Nova - Nova or elsewhere .
I urge the Leader to do current the file and I him request of new a response to the about of the sublease .
the Senator Boudreau :
I remind to all the honourable senators that the government has took recently of the commitments important to the regard of the equipment of the forces Armed Canadian .
I have spoke of the under - submarines .
for the under - submarines , the are incurred are of 750 million of $ .
the process of Alternative of the helicopters of research and search Labrador is in during , and the are incurred in this case are little higher to 800 million of $ .
the government has also committed 30 million of $ for modernize the compound Aldershot , and he has also committed 300 million of $ to the payments of the benefits , for improve the level of life of the members of our forces Armed in this region .
I not want not ?luder the question of the hon. Senator .
in fact , I have fact of the research and I have a response research that I pr?voyais table to the end of the period of the questions .
I can confirm to the hon. Senator that the you not provides not , for the moment , rent of helicopters .
the St. Germain :
honourable senators , he is all to fact unacceptable of airing our military to of such conditions in reason of the bad state of our equipment .
he must find a solution .
he me unpopular of duty say that , but I not sometimes not to find of the words for describe the afraid that must certainly repeated the Pilots when they must do steal a apparatus who has need of 30 p.m. of maintenance for each hour of flight .
the hon. Senator can - he thinking to a other organization in the world of the Flying who fonctionnerait in of such conditions ?
the Senator Meighen :
she should close his doors .
the St. Germain :
the Senator Meighen has reason .
be the Board of the security of the transport , be the Department of the Minister Collenette the limited close in reason of the peerage state of his aircraft .
I urge a time of more the Leader to reparler to the Minister for that he change his Position .
the Senator Boudreau :
I thank the hon. Senator for his comments .
honourable senators , I me repeat , but the Minister me has given the insurance that his first priority was the Alternative of the helicopters .
of any obviously , he recognizes , as all those who ministries the situation , that the helicopters must be replaced .
for this who is of the use of the aircraft , I me rassure to the idea that the helicopters not recevraient not of mission of flight if the persons responsible not were not convaincues that they can the duties .
further to the cost of the maintenance , some questions can if ask .
however , we we happen of that and I hope that the aircraft will replaced also quickly that that can expectation if do .
the Nations Nations
the proposal of the Party Reform of reassess the participation of the Canada - Position Position of the government
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the Party Reform , who form the Opposition official to the House of the Commons , has released a document on the policy foreign in which he said that , if he formait the government , the Party Reform r??valuerait the participation of the Canada to the Nations Nations .
met given that the UN is a cornerstone cornerstone of the policy foreign of the Canada since a half - century , what that be the party to the power , what is the Position of the government opposite to a proposal also paints ?
the government has he the intention of answer in really clear his support to the Nations Nations , or will he give to this proposal the attention that she deserves , this is - to - say not not in hold account ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , to payments of Leader of the government to the Senate , I wish to express the support strong and unfailing of our government to the institution that is the Organization of the Nations Nations .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Boudreau :
he is incredible that a party policy responsible convey the kind of statement or adopt the kind of Position seaway by the Party Reform .
the Reform not have - they nothing win of the history ?
he would preferable of not hardly bringing of attention to this statement , order of avoid of him conferring a whatever credibility .
he is incredible that a such statement can be made seriously to our then .
the health
the power of regulate the products concerning in the setting of ?quarrissage - Position Position of the government
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
in July last , he if is product a incident unfortunate to the Manitoba .
of the tested have been empoisonn?s by a herbicide very powerful .
they have been exp?di?s toward a plant of ?quarrissage where they have can - be been CANBAT to the moul?e produced to the plant , which has then served to esteem of the productions and of the chickens .
fortunately , however , that not has not been demonstrated .
the body federal , the Agency Canadian of inspection of the foods , claims that the ?quarrissage falls of the provinces then that the government provincial and the business of ?quarrissage in because believe that the ?quarrissage is of jurisdiction federal .
what is the Position of the government to the regard of the responsibility federal in Equity of products concerning in the setting of ?quarrissage ?
of even , on what data scientific if basic you for esteem the productions and the chickens with of the tested typical , and who knows what other restes of all sorts , then that you has had the example of the illness of the cow Mad in England ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I am well happy of the question raised by the Senator .
for there answer , I better have to my sides the Leader Deputy , since this is him the expert of the sector of the cultured .
the Senator Forrestall :
I like better there see your colleague of the Cape - Cape !
the Senator Boudreau :
the hon. Senator raises a point important .
I not known all simply not enough the field for answer today today .
however , I will me inform and I him fournirai a response also quickly that possible .
Order OF orders
the business of the Senate
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
I point the Rules .
honourable senators , the Opposition request to the government of consider the possible of study now the report that just of table the chairman of the Committee of selection .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , we are of agreed and we giving to the Senate the leave of study now this report .
the Committee of selection
Adopted of the fifth report
the Senate proceeded to the study of the fifth report of the Committee of selection ( position of Speaker to payments lengths ) , presented to the Senate the 17 November 99 .
the hon. L?once Mercier :
honourable senators , I move the Adopted of this report .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I like deal few words to comments of this motion of our colleague , the whip of the government , who is a excellent chairman of this Committee , a of the best in the history of the Senate .
I like express the happy that we have severe of this side of the House to the announcement of the appointment of our colleague , the Senator Losier - Losier , who just of the province of the New - Brunswick and who has fact a contribution remarkable since his appointment to the Senate .
we are very happy of support the motion of the Senator Mercier .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , let - me of add a word in the debate on this report .
to the behalf of the senators who sit of this side - side , I congratulate the Senator appropriately in the report for office the position of Speaker pro tempore .
this human has capacity with distinction his role of Senator , and I am sure that she if acquittera with the even distinction of the duties of Speaker pro tempore .
I congratulate also the chairman of the Committee of selection and all the senators who have participated to the deliberations and took the speak for support the report .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
the Act on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Fraser , seconded by the hon. Senator Gill , seconded to the second Reading of the bill of bill C - 7 , Act amend the Act on the stopped judicial and a other bill in consequential .
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , before of read the text that I have prepared , I want you remind that the bill of bill C - 7 is in substance and contributor the bill of bill C - 69 , whose we had began the review to the end of the last session .
my remarks this after - afternoon hand several time do reference to the former bill of bill C - 69 .
not there see not there a attempt of you misleading in mistake , but the faults bill C - 69 equivalent to the bill of bill C - 7 contributor .
before of planned my speech , I wish to thank the hon. Senator Fraser for have seconded the interventions that I have made in this House therefore that to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional for amend the anc?tre of the bill of bill C - 7 , be the bill of bill C - 69 , to the level of the powers regulatory operated to the Solicitor General .
I wish also to highlight that the Solicitor General has welcomed with happy the changes that I have proposed to this bill of bill in June last .
I him in am very grateful .
these provisions contribute to facilitate the r?insertion social of the offenders .
of more , the Act Canadian on the rights of the human banned any discrimination others the persons who have obtained a rehabilitative of the Solicitor General of the Canada .
he is important of mention that the rehabilitative not efface not the existence of the condemnation and that she can be automatically cancel if the human is certified condamn?e for a act criminal .
currently the Act on the stopped judicial provides the consequences of the granting of the rehabilitative , as the implementation under scell?s of the stopped judicial of the offender .
honourable senators , the changes proposed by the government to the Act on the stopped judicial , by the through of the bill of bill C - 7 , improve to increase the security of the population .
primarily , they are presided to prevent the offenders sexual of office of the positions of confidence deposited of the children or of other persons vulnerable .
for achieve this objective , the bill of bill C - 7 move of add a clause Supplementary in this who has relates to the case particular of the stopped judicial of the offenders sexual r?habilit?s .
the new section 6.3 of the Act on the stopped judicial provides that the Commissioner of the Mounted Royal of the Canada can include in the fichier automatis? of the relev?s of condamnations criminal administration by the RCMP , a indicateur or a marqueur who trip the service of police doing a research to of the purposes of filtrage that he there , relatively to a human , a file scell? or a increased of a condemnation for a offence to uniqueness body portion to the regulations to the regard of which he him has been delivered a rehabilitative .
this recommendation has been endorsed to the unanimously by the ministers federal and provincial of the Justice during of their meeting of October 1998 , to Regina .
therefore , the agencies who business of the services to of the children and who want Services a volunteer or a employee paid able now determine if the candidate has obtained a rehabilitative to the regard of a offence sexual .
this audit not able be instituted that to two conditions : of a share , if the employment pla?ait the postulant in situation of authority or of confidence by report to the children or to of other persons vulnerable ; of other share , if extend - side has contribute by wrote to the audit .
the to marqueur to signalera to the police who fact the audit to of the purposes of filtrage that his request of disclosure of the stopped of a human r?habilit?e must be accompanied of the fingerprints photographed of the human in question .
if the audit allows of establish that the human has already fact the subject of a condemnation for a offence to uniqueness body , the RCMP or the body officer in question who has consulted to the audit can ask to the Commissioner of the RCMP of back to the Solicitor General all file or increased of condemnation to the regard of the individual .
the Solicitor General able decide of the relevance of negotiates the content of the stopped .
if this last the allows , the RCMP or the service of police able communicate the information to the body who in has fact the request .
by against , the body not able use these information that in the framework of the review of the request of employment .
for avoid of the abuse , the bill of bill provides that this audit not able be In to a other end that similar of study a request of employment .
honourable senators , he me fact happy of you say that I am fully in agreed with the objectives and the principles who under - tend the bill of bill C - 7 .
he is clear that the security of our children and of the persons vulnerable of our society will better prot?g?e by these new measures .
by against , I wish to mention that several associations , as the Corporation Elizabeth Fry , the Criminal Lawyers' Association , have issued of the reserves further to the policy on which if based the bill the of bill C - 7 .
the key concern of these groups if based on the fact that this bill of bill could jeopardizing the integrity of the system of rehabilitative and his role in the Lehmann and the r?int?gration of the offenders .
they argue , including , that the Solicitor General not has not established of way satisfactorily that the bill current on the stopped judicial and the rehabilitative not enough more for protect properly the society of the pr?dateurs sexual who have been r?habilit?s .
of more , the Corporation John Howard and the Corporation Elizabeth Fry concerned that in allowing the access to the issues of rehabilitative , you not give a false sense of security , in rel?guant in the Shadows of other elements key of the selection of the staff for the positions of confidence by report to of the children or of the persons vulnerable .
honourable senators , during of the business of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional on the bill of bill C - 69 , we have examined this question very carefully .
in this sense , I like address quickly the question of balance between the rights of the persons r?habilit?es by the Solicitor General of the Canada and those of the children or of the persons vulnerable .
even if , to the eyes of some , the provisions of this bill of bill seem back in because the principle of rehabilitative social on which speaks the operating of our system of releasing naively and of rehabilitative , this bill in sometimes however to a sure balance between the rights of the human who has been accus?e , condamn?e then lib?r?e and those of the children that we must protect .
honourable senators , he is obvious that when he if is of perpetrators of children or of persons seniors , a only offence in is already a of too .
the consequences are serious and we must do all this who is in our power , in as that parliamentarians , for avoid that of such events if occur .
when I states that the bill of bill establishing to a sure balance between the rights of the two groups of individuals , I not trying not of minimize or of banaliser the problem , but I want the put in context .
when we talking of actions criminals , of the treatment of the criminals and of offer of the measures of fight effective and realistic against this kind of crimes , we must see the things in a context comparative .
I can you affirming , in as that lawyer , that he is always very difficult of reach to the perfect balance between the rights of the persons , who have demonstrated that they could lead a life normal , and the fact of avoid that the system of rehabilitative not trading a mechanism who masque the history of the persons who continuously of present a danger for the children and of other persons vulnerable .
this is a problem thorny .
in this sense , the government federal has agreed , with all the other authorities provincial and judicial during of a conference of the ministers of the Justice , of put in place a system of rep?rage of this kind .
this is the consensus referred are devote all these ministers .
this is a compromise , this is a proposal , who not will not to the exhaustion in a sense or in the other , but who is considered as met balanced and achievable .
in response to the concerns legitimate address by some members of the Committee and some associations who concerned that the bill of bill not compromette the objectives of rehabilitative of the process of granting of a shirts , I points that the bill of bill not provides that a only exception to the benefits planned of the rehabilitative .
he provides a system of rep?rage extremely cibl? in which are included of the measures of protection of the rights of the human r?habilit?e .
I like now address the question of the regulatory - who , be said in way , has been to the heart of the business of the Committee of the Affairs legal - Current to the application of the provisions for allow the marquage of the stopped judicial .
as you the know , this question me concern to the more senior point .
currently , the section 8 of the bill of bill provides amend the section 9.1 of the Act on the stopped judicial for that this new clause on the marquage of the issues of persons r?habilit?es following to a comdamnation for a offence to uniqueness body be implemented properly .
in under of the bill of bill C - 7 - therefore the bill of bill that we have before we , and this was also the case of the bill of bill C - 69 - the government able , by regulation , first , inventory the list of the offences simple by the term to to uniqueness body to ; second , govern the inclusion of the marqueur to the regard of the casiers judicial and relev?s of condemnation and the audit of these last ; third , define the words to children to and to persons vulnerable to ; and fourth , govern the process of consent of the individual Treaty to the new section 6.3 , of the audit of the issues or of the communication of the information that the stopped contains to the body who in fact the request and clarify in the regulation the factors that the Solicitor General takes in consideration when he wants of Authorize or not the disclosure of the content of the file of a human r?habilit?e .
during of the appearance of the Solicitor General before the members of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , the 14 June last , I have claimed that the powers regulatory , such that d?finis by the faults bill C - 69 , were a question of policy .
to this effect , I him have asked several questions .
why the process of consent of the individual described to the new section 6.3 of the audit of the issues or of the communication of the information that the stopped contains to the body who in fact the request is - he children only to the Governor in board ?
why the bill of bill not playing - he not that he not if rallies only that to the individuals who had been burdened for a offence to uniqueness body ?
even if all the speech of the government in the other House and to the Senate have always spoke of offence to uniqueness body , the bill of bill not knowing not reference specifically to the uniqueness body of these offences .
why the bill of bill not contained - he not in Printed a list of the offences to uniqueness body even if of other l?gislations federal , as the Act regarding the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques , concepts a appendice who travail clear the offences who are simple by the provisions of the bill ?
honourable senators , when I have took the speak in June last , during of the debate in second Reading of the bill therein C - 69 , I have claimed that the powers operated to the Governor in board vigorously very important .
during of the testimony of the Solicitor General to the Committee , I him have mentioned that the you could resolve these questions in the ins?rant in the bill of bill .
medicare note honourable senators , that since few years , the government present - and the former government - attempts of exempt of several bills of bill the definitions legal or the process of operating of a legislation who could be doctors or reticent when they are analyzed by the members of the Parliament , the committees Standing of the two Houses or the groups of interest .
that is , you in agree , very disturbing because the process of consultation for the study of a bill of bill and the study of a new regulatory not is not of the all the even .
in the case of the definition of the words to children to or to persons vulnerable to , the officials of the Department of the Solicitor General have answered to our concerns of the way next :
in the case of to persons vulnerable to , the definition not had not been Falardeau in the bill of bill because she could change to the during of the next years .
in this sense , he would therefore been difficult of define this term in the bill on the stopped judicial .
in this context , he was more benefit that the ministers carry amend this definition by regulation without have to present a new bill of bill .
despite all , I have reminded to the Minister and to his officials that a part of the Code Civil of the Quebec treating substantially and of way very specific of the persons vulnerable for that their rights civilians ensure protected .
in the case of the term to children to , the officials have claimed that this definition was already Falardeau in of other laws and that he not there had therefore no need of the include in the faults bill C - 69 .
yet , the new Act on the system of justice criminal for the adolescents that we taken to the during of the next months contains a definition of the term to children to .
contrary to this that have claimed the Minister and his officials , I am satisfied that this definition not foundations not often .
of more , these same officials have claimed for justify these two oublis that the Department has followed the even approach for the changes to the annexes to the Act on the system Correctional and the implementation in freedom under condition .
currently , these annexes concepts several definitions legal and regulatory who are changed by ascertain .
honourable senators , I wish to highlight that several members of the Committee , whose me - even , have fact pointed to the Minister that even if the section 8 of the bill of bill C - 69 , who has relates to the power regulatory , playing the fact that the offences deduction for the drafting of the list would to uniqueness body , the bill of bill not knowing plans mention that he if rallies only to the individuals who had been burdened for a offence to uniqueness body .
to several places in the bill of bill , you not knowing reference that to the term to offence to .
by therefore , this list would could include a series of offences who not would not a uniqueness specifically body , this who would increased the scope of the provisions of the bill of bill C - 69 .
that is too newest and too broad .
the officials of the Department have claimed that this list there already .
she has been indications in cooperation with the provinces for decide of this that he probably of include on the list of the offences who must forecast of the offences of nature sexual designed particularly of the children or of the groups vulnerable .
if she is already indications , why not not the have Falardeau in the bill of bill ?
that we would given the opportunity of the study immediately .
in consequential , the list of offences who will to the basic of the application of this new legislation could be many too newest and she d?passerait widely the intention of the l?gislateur .
I wish to you remind that the right p?nal is basic .
a crime is a crime .
in this sense , he seems little appropriate of let these decisions to the power executive , only to the power executive , rather that to the power legislative .
of more , you not can renier the principle who means that all our laws ensure in agreed with the provisions of the Charter of the rights and freedoms .
finally , in the case of the consent , the officials of the Department have influencing that they not had not felt necessary of include in the bill the process of consent of the individual expected to the section 6.3 of the bill of bill .
in several other laws federal , this process of consent is present specifically in the bill .
honourable senators , for trying of assure the members of the Committee , the Minister has justified the inclusion in the bill of all these powers regulatory for of the reasons practices .
in his spirit , some of these changes can take enormous of time , particularly if they altering do the subject of in review Parliamentary thorough .
in the case present , the government risk of if passed in a situation that of other qualifieraient of high and that he not would not in legislation of go enough soon if , by example , the definition of the words to children to or to persons vulnerable to or the process of consent of the individual altering be reticent quickly for of the reasons practices or legal .
honourable senators , as I the have said , he is true that he is pressing of ensure to the protection of the children and of the persons vulnerable against the pr?dateurs sexual .
by against , that not is not a reason for repeal the powers of the Parliament and of move addition the principles of our Charter .
this is for this reason that some members of the Committee and me - even not have not agreed the explanation of the Minister , his argument and those of his officials .
opposite to the magnitude of the criticism of the members of the Committee - you know that this is a history who finit well - , the Solicitor General if is committed to reassess the provisions of the bill of bill to the during of the been .
he me seemed more pressing of adopt the bill of bill quickly .
the 9 September last , the officials of the Department of the Solicitor General have presented to the members of the Committee of the amendments for correct the flaws of the bill of bill C - 69 .
of more , the bill of bill sp?cifiera that the system of marquage of the casiers judicial not if adressera that to the individuals who have been burdened for of the offences to uniqueness body .
for better encadrer this process , a list of offences has been added in Printed of the bill of bill .
I suppose that you understand that I talking of the bill of bill C - 69 .
this last able be amended , by against , by ascertain .
then , the definitions signing to children to or of to persons vulnerable to have been displaced , of the text of the regulation to the text of the bill of bill .
honourable senators , let - me of conclude in forming that still a time , through to the resolute of the members of your Committee of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , the bill of bill C - 69 and , I the hope well , the bill of bill C - 7 , have been greatly am?lior?s of way to this that the rights of the persons r?habilit?es and those of the children and of the persons vulnerable ensure protected fairly .
to the any end of my remarks , I support the principles of this bill of bill .
he will examined as he the must to the Committee of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
I hope that the government r?introduira the amendments that he had acceptance for original the bill of bill C - 69 .
we basis , still a time , very deliver in your behalf , honourable senators .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , if no other Senator not wishes take the speak , I orators of the before with the motion .
the hon. Senator Fraser , seconded by the hon. Senator Gill , move that the bill of bill be read a second time .
you pleasure - he of adopt the motion , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill is read a second time . )
referred to the Committee
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a trois?me time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Fraser , the bill of bill is referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional . )
[ more earlier [
visitors of Gallery
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I you attention the presence to the gallery of His Altesse Royal Samdech Krom Khun Norodom Sirivudh , deputy - Prime Minister of the Kingdom of the Cambodge .
to the behalf of all the senators , I you wish the welcome to the Senate of the Canada .
Affairs legal and Constitutional
notice of motion Requesting the Authorized of use the documents and evidence collected during of the study of the bill of bill precedent to the purposes of the study of the bill of bill present
leave having been granted of return to the notice of motion :
the hon. Joan Fraser :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 18 November 99 , I move :
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional to the during of his study of the bill therein C - 69 , Act amend the Act on the stopped judicial and a other bill in consequential , during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament ensure removed to the Committee for the presented study of the bill of bill C - 7 .
[ more earlier [
visitors of Gallery
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I draw your attention on the presence to the gallery of a delegation of the leaders and other members of the group of the Montagnais of the Biche - St. - Jean and of the electrification - North of the Quebec , invited of honour of the hon. Senator Gill .
of the share of all the senators , I you wish the welcome to the Senate .
of the Senators :
hear !
Affairs foreign
Authorized to the Committee of until the date of Tabled of his report final on the amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
leave having been granted of return to the notice of motion :
the hon. John B . Stewart , pursuant to the notice of the 16 November 99 , move :
that , by derogation to the Order adopted by the Senate the Thursday 14 October 99 , the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign , authorized to examine for in do report the ramifications for the Canada : 1 ) . of the amendment embraced to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North ( NATO ) and to the role of the Canada in the NATO since the disbanding of the alliance of Warsaw , of the end of the War Cold and of the entry recent in the NATO of the Hungarian , of the Poland and of the Republic tch?que ; and 2 ) . of the keeping of the peace , particularly the ability of the Canada of there participate under the auspices of not important what body international whose the Canada fact part , be authorized to present his report final to the more later the 15 December 99 ; and
that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the Electronic of the results of his study contained in his report final , and this until to the 24 December 99 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices usual , to table his report deposited of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be reputation have been tabled to the Senate .
( the motion is agreed . )
the business of the Senate
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I point the Rules .
we have received he there has a moment a notice of motion of the Senator Fraser .
a motion similar of the Senator Oliver found to the Paper .
you not seems not know very well if a motion Requesting the Authorized of use of the documents and evidence collected by a Committee Senate Standing to the during of a session prior of the Parliament to the purposes of a Committee of even behalf established to the during of a new session and responsible of study the even about is consistent to the Rules .
you not seems not very well know the Rules .
can - you we provide of the clarification order of suspending all misunderstanding ?
his Hon. the Speaker :
I thank the Senator Kinsella of attention this case .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I pretend simply that the request just to comments , even if I must mention that this case has surgi by following of the concerns of the Senator Cools .
I better can - be him CPAs the speak rather that of try me - even of summarized the question .
I pretend , however , that I putting with the Leader Deputy of the Opposition that he would timely of ask to His Hon. of wishes this question .
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I if very pleased of add my grain of sel to the debate .
all of first , I like of the clarification .
is - this a point to the Rules ?
of what question are - we before ?
the Senator Hays :
this is a request made to the Speaker of determine the acceptability of the motion , whose notice has been given by the Senator Fraser .
the Senator Cools :
the Senator Kinsella if hassles he to the about of the acceptability of the motion introduced by the Senator Fraser ?
that me craft strange .
the Senator Kinsella :
not , the Senator Fraser has properly given a notice of motion , whose we understand strong well the substance .
a motion similar has been introduced by the Senator Oliver the week last .
this motion has legitimately engagement of the questions of the share of senators , whose the Senator Cools .
he seems there have to the least two schools of thinking further to know if , after the prorogation , the business obviously during a session by a Committee Senate on a about given can be removed to the new Committee .
to my notice , he important of clarify the question .
the Senator Cools :
honourable senators , I pr?voyais contribute some clarification to this regard tomorrow , when I participerai to the debate on the motion of the Senator Fraser , but if the senators the wish , I can the do now .
I trying of determine in what context I say to the questions of the Senator Kinsella .
I am prepared to address this question .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , we going beyond - before of the things .
all this that we have , this is a notice of motion of the Senator Fraser .
he not there has not of debate on a notice of motion or even of possible of contractual the Rules to this regard .
the question must be raised a time that we are before of the motion .
however , I me plierai to the showing of the honourable senators .
if you want that I educate the question now , I can the do , but I believe that he would more timely of expect that we arrivions to this section to the Paper .
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , I have invoqu? the Rules regarding the funds of a motion whose the Senator Fraser has given notice .
a motion similar has been proposed by the Senator Oliver .
as this is to the Speaker that responsibility the job responsibility of interpret our Rules , I have asked of the clarification .
I have invoqu? the Rules for ask of the clarification to the about of the Rules because that I believe that we in have occasionally need .
I have took the speak not not for debate the notice of motion , but well for contractual the Rules to the time timely , who is now .
the Senator Hays :
the case could also be heard to the time where the House will cases of the motion of the Senator Oliver .
for my share , I believe that today today would a time well chosen , particularly that you pr?voyez duty you criticized .
what that he in be , the Senator Cools is the human who has raised the question , and I believe that she should explain this who the concern .
the Senator Cools :
I want well .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I the repeat , I believe that we going too soon in besogne .
all this that we have before we , in the case of the Senator Fraser , this is a notice of motion .
words said , we not are not before of this case .
a notice of motion not needy do the subject of a point to the Rules or of a situation debate .
you we said simply that her the Senator committed propose someone something .
we able in debate when she if will ex?cut?e .
if such is the good happy of the Senate , we can begin soon now .
I me in defer to you to this regard .
honourable senators , I repeat that to my notice , the way the more orderly of do the things would of deal of each question according their Order of Presented .
if the debate on the motion of the Senator Oliver is adjourned to the behalf of her the Senator Cools , we in sacrifice then , for move then to the motion of the Senator Fraser .
however , I me in defer to you .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , if the Speaker is prepared to deal of this about of way abstraite now , can - be could - we in speak today today , when we in viendrons to the motion of the Senator Oliver .
I like highlight that the motion of the Senator Oliver who we has well been introduced and who is seconded to the behalf of the Senator Cools is , in substance , exactly the even that the notice of motion of the Senator Fraser .
would - he acceptable that we in discutions when the motion of the Senator Oliver will consideration ?
if this is acceptable , I suggestion that we tarred therefore .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the notice of motion and the motion are similar since they if support on the even principle .
they not are however not identiques since they inconsistent of subjects different .
the Senator Cools :
honourable senators , we could can - be deal of the question complex raised in the case of the motion of the Senator Oliver in proposing a amendment .
I me in defer to the Senate .
if the senators are of notice that the you should trying of solve these questions today today , I am of agreed .
however , I am of notice that that not step not really a point to the Rules , but rather a question of extension .
if such is the case , he would can - be been preferable of in deal under the Order of a notice of motion of the government , this who refer to the notice of motion of the Senator Fraser .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , we in discuterons when we posed to the motion of the Senator Oliver .
can - be would - he preferable of in speak to this time for be well some that our comments ensure recevables .
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
Authorized given to the Committee of the Finance national of study the Estimates Supplementary ( A )
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , pursuant to the notice of the 16 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national be authorized to study , order of in do report , the Estimates set in the Estimates Supplementary ( A ) for the fiscal if ending the 31 March 2000 , to the exception of the credit 10a of the Parliament and of the credit 25a of the Council private .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
referred of the credit 25a of the Council private to the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , pursuant to the notice of the 16 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official be authorized to study the Estimates set to the credit 25a of the Council private content in the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) for the fiscal if ending the 31 March 2000 ; and
that a message be Message to the House of the Commons for the in inform .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
referred of the credit 10a of the Council private to the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , pursuant to the notice of the 16 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament be authorized to study the Estimates set to the credit 10a of the Parliament content in the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) for the fiscal if ending the 31 March 2000 ; and
that a message be Message to the House of the Commons for the in inform .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Code criminal Position Act on the system Correctional and the implementation in freedom under condition
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
- honourable senators , I rise the speak for propose that the bill of bill C - 247 be read a second time and for start the debate on this bill of bill .
to the hour current , the authors of embezzler multiple not can be burdened to of the diversion additional , not would - this that of a day or of a hour for the second , the third or even the eleventh murder Farmers that they caregiver .
the bill of bill C - 247 served in question the concept according which the authors of embezzler multiple should be eligible to a releasing naively after have purg? of 10 to 25 years of their worthy of sentencing to perp?tuit? , what that be the number of embezzler that they have committed .
the bill of bill of Albina Guarnieri break this guarantee and occasionally to the judges the possible of impose of the diversion proportionnelles to the crimes committed .
they discuss then the flexibility necessary for add a day or a year or until to 25 years of more to the worthy opportunity .
the only murderers who expect opposite to this possible will those burdened for of the embezzler multiple .
the bill of bill C - 247 was the C - 251 to the during of the last session .
the Senate has received the bill of bill C - 251 the 8 June 99 during the last days of the session .
in consequential , the bill of bill C - 251 has expired to the Paper .
Le19 October , to the House of the Commons , Albina Guarnieri has presented his bill of bill C - 247 who was in fact the former bill of bill C - 251 .
the bill of bill C - 247 has been read in first Reading to the Senate the 2 November .
honourable senators , during four years the Commons have been saisies of this bill of bill under four clauses different , be the C - 274 , the C - 321 in 1996 , the C - 251 in 1997 and maintenantle C - 247 .
that shows well the importance of the opinion of the House of the Commons for the cabinet and the Minister responsible .
the bill of bill C - 247 is a bill of bill of initiative Parliamentary prepared , defended and sponsored to the House of the Commons by Albina Guarnieri , the MP Liberal of Mississauga - East , almost of Toronto .
this bill of bill meets to a question social important and burning , the condition of the system of justice criminal to the Canada .
Albina Guarnieri me has asked of sponsor his bill of bill here and of the defend to the Senate .
I the wish in high believe .
despite of many obstacles developed deliberately in across of his road , she has fact current this bill of bill .
all the Canadians him must many .
I the support in his efforts , particularly in the task difficult who introducing to encaisser the minuses brutaux who are distinct to the within of his own caucus , a field of the relations human referred you should seriously reflect .
honourable senators , the 18 August 1997 , to Surrey , in British - British , I have attended in company of Albina Guarnieri to the hearing , in under of the section 745 , of the highest Clifford Bud .
no arrangement not had been took by the prosecutor General or the court for allow to of the members of follow this hearing .
the members Liberal to the House of the Commons , Dan McTeague and Paul Steckle were also attendance , of even that John Nunziata , a former member Liberal today today independent , and several members of the Party Reform .
Christie Blatchford has very well described this hearing .
in his section entitled : to Clifford Olson' St. macabre circus' to , The the 19 August 1997 in the Toronto Sun , she said :
the Senator Liberal Anne Cools was so choqu?e that she was almost incoh?rente , saying between his toothpicks that the to cirque macabre to referred you was in considering of attend to the court was so monstrous that she party absolutely do someone something for if predated , words she not could not the necessitates more long .
honourable senators , the 1 December 1998 , in his testimony before the Committee Standing of the justice and of the rights of the human of the House of the Commons to comments of the bill of bill C - 251 , today today the C - 247 , Albina Guarnieri has described the hearing in under of the section 745 , Pritchard by the Justice Richard Low , of the Court Supreme of the British - British , in giving a view of the highest Bud .
she has said :
for me , the time the more alarmant in the proceedings Bud if is product when Bud has read to high Senators a letter of his lawyer him conseillant of splendours of a only suddenly all the embezzler that he had committed .
therefore , indication the lawyer , Bud could fully advantage of the system of diversion competitors .
Bud has said that his lawyer him had fully of fully advantage of the system of diversion competitors .
Albina Guarnieri continues :
Bud has nargu? the court in their saying : to scrap not can nothing do .
they not can that me give a worthy concurrente to .
simply for you give a small idea of the other advice centuries of the member esteemed of the bec representative Bud , Bud has quoted a letter of his lawyer who said :
prepare a plan who contra of first to do in sort that you are completely sufficient of the persisted of the share of policiers boy - scouts too z?l?s .
the tax of diversion competitors is avantageuse for the authors nasty of embezzler multiple to the Prime and to the second degree .
Albina Guarnieri we has invited outright to examine this disciples question of policy public , the determination of the worthy to the regard of criminals , and more particularly of the authors cruel , obstin?s , incorrigibles and nasty of embezzler multiple to the Prime and to the second degree .
he if is of the determination of the worthy for of the actions really bad .
the to difficulty to is a word rarely used because that his employment demands a definition of the to well to and of the source of the to well to .
of more , these words , to well to and to difficulty to , impose a debate moral , and a debate on the concept of a be transcendant , a d?it? , God as source of all this who is well .
on the place public of our days , the development of the policy public and the debate on these questions are internationalist of convictions diplomacy , this who give this that of jump you called the to place public any nue to .
many of leaders political current have strove of mixed the policy of the moral and of mixed the reminder public of the convictions personal , in saying the do to the behalf of the neutral moral .
the debate public and policy to the Parliament , on the place public , in the absence of principles and of convictions diplomacy , is a debate rhetoric and missed .
the debate on the place public and to the Parliament demands absolutely that the participants actually speak their convictions diplomacy and ?thiques in the debate , and this debate must include of the justifications diplomacy .
honourable senators , these last time , many have refused of admit the existence of the m?chancet? human and that she has little of explanation and of th?ories .
the very few explanation of the m?chancet? who have been completed are of Order Theologica .
gold , the explanation th?ologiques are ?cart?es of our days to the behalf of the neutral moral .
however , those who working in the services of detention , in the services of police , in the sector of the court and of the right p?nal , and in the services social - of even that in policy and in relations political - know that the m?chancet? human there .
she there really .
they know also that the m?chancet? human will of the difficulty to anyone if approach too of she .
the difficulty has for nature and characteristic of bringing injured to the well , of him hurt and of the unnoticed .
report Hope visitors Healing Brethour Evil .
to comments of the difficulty , who effraie with reason the most of the people , the Dr Peck wrote to the page 42 :
the fact that we not have not of definition generally accepted of the difficulty testimony of the enormous mystery of the about .
I believe however that headwind , we have all a some understanding of his nature .
this savant psychiatrist we informed that he not there not of definition generally accepted of the difficulty , and we talking of the enormous mystery of the m?chancet? human and the understanding deficit that we in have .
the Dr. Peck wrote still , to the page 46 :
that he suffice of admit that , well that we not horses not still of a bloc of knowledge scientific on the difficulty that he vaille the worthy of honour of the term to psychologie to , the experts of the behaviour have looked of the bases who education possible the development of a such psychologie .
the maltreatment of the inconscient by Freud and the concept of the Shadows home addressed are all two fundamental .
asking our shortages in the knowledge of the difficulty , he has seconded the efforts of the Dr. Eric Fromm for the study .
the Dr. Peck has added , to the page 47 :
however , according my own experience , the beings human who if livrent to the difficulty are very many and monitorings usually very ordinary to the eyes of a observer not caring .
the honourable senators if recall that good number of commentators had pointed that Paul Bernardo and his wife , Karla Homolka , vigorously very normal and well ordinary .
honourable senators , the Clifford Bud and Karla Homolka not are not patients , or mentalement or physiquement .
they are all simply nasty .
all common that he must be m?chant for deleted the life of blood - cold , intentionnellement , deliberately , and of way repeatedly .
he must be m?chant for assassiner crudely , deliberately and of blood - cold several beings human , particularly of the children vulnerable and without Defence , order of satisfy of the impulsions purchase d?brid?es , of the perversions purchase and of obtain a gratification sexual .
a such difficulty casein to the treatment or to the remedies .
in addition , the concept current of illness mental not uniting not to explain the difficulty and to the Outbreak , because these Offenders not are not patients .
the word to illness to means difficulty to the comfortable .
far of the pay difficulty to the comfortable , their behaviour not the g?ne plans .
the highest Bud is all to fact to the comfortable with his condition .
he sign his letters to Clifford Robert Bud , TUEUR EN S?RIE of 11 children to .
I have received a of his letters that he had signed of this way .
the 23 April 1996 , to the Senate , I have raised the question of privilege , to the words of the subsection 43 ( 1 ) of the Rules , to comments of this letter .
the Speaker of the Senate has felt that he not there had not injured to the privilege to first view .
the highest Bud not is not patient , he is m?chant .
he appear that the ministers and their services respective not grab not of disadvantage to this that the Parliament be excluded of the process of development of the policy Current to this question crucial .
that me has The of many more clear when the review of my two bills of bill , regarding the d?tenueKarla Homolka and the agreements steely on the leaders of charge , has been interrompu sommairement and that the Instruments have been retir?s of the Paper .
in 1997 , I have reprinted this initiative in the bill of bill S - 16 , Act regarding a some Karla Homolka , and there still , the Speaker in has ordered the withdrawal .
in the second case , in 1996 , to the about of the bill of bill S - 3 , Act amend the Code criminal ( agreed on the Leader of charge ) , the study of my bill of bill has been inquire without that the Committee gave had enough of time , to my notice , for if in impr?gner , without that a debate gave been held , and without that gave been heard the less witness .
the only witnesses received by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional for the bill of bill S - 3 , in relaxation of my own human , have been the representatives of the Department of the Justice , Mr. Yvan Roy bearer quotes Bobiasz , lawyer deep to the 110 of the policy and of the amendment of the right in Equity criminal .
these witnesses have essentially asked to the Committee of reject the initiative .
my opposed not have wanted or of a debate or of a review .
they number could amend the bill of bill or even reject my legislation Parliamentary after a review thorough and a debate vigour .
honourable senators , during of the hearing demand?e by Bud in under of the section 745 and who has had held to Surrey , in British - British , I have learned that this m?meM. Yvan Roy , of the Department of the Justice , was on place , to the clause of the media .
Christie Blatchford , that I have already cit?e , has noticed the presence of these officials to Surrey .
she in talking in these words :
... the officials of the Justice were there for give of the information on this section controversial .
she travail these officials as met Ir?ne Arsenault , manager , Race with the media , Division of the Affairs public of the Department of the Justice ; Fraser Simons , steering regional of the Commission of the lib?rations reversal , region of Abbotsford ; and , for repeating the term used by Blatchford , to the cerveau to , Yvan Roy .
you if recall that the persons who have rigorous the Minister of Homolka were George Thomson , under - prosecutor General of the Ontario , and the under - prosecutor Deputy , Michael Code .
I rise note that , then that the Senate was before of my bills of bill to the about of Homolka , this m?meGeorge Thomson is became under - Minister of the Justice to Ottawa , of the time where Allan Rock in was the Minister , lone of this fact the boss Mr. Roy , to the cerveau to .
honourable senators , to the Canada , you not means not know this that think the parliamentarians of the Administration of the justice criminal , in particular in this who respect the determination of the worthy and the retribution .
the bill of bill C - 247 is the expression of a opinion Parliamentary not ongoing who has been agreed to the House of the Commons by a vote majority , even if the Minister of the Justice not was not of agreed .
of any obviously , the opinion of the Minister not was not similar of the majority of the members .
the observers followed our business for know if the opinion of the Minister of the Justice pr?vaudra now to the Senate .
Albina Guarnieri has raised a question important in right p?nal , be similar of the determination of the worthy and of the retribution in the case of murderers dangerous .
his real question door on the value , the value real , of the life of a be human by report to the sentence opportunity to extend who has ability a or several lives .
appearing the 1 December 1998 before the Committee Standing of the justice and of the rights of the human of the House of the common , Albina Guarnieri has said this who following :
the Canadians not have never voted for the diversion competitors .
you not their has never asked if their identity , their identity Canadian , was service of a system of determination of the worthy more laxiste , between other to the regard of the violeurs and of the murderers .
the diversion competitors hand to the conflict of the concept fundamental of justice .
the fact is that the Canadians feel that each murder or abuse sexual , each victim , must be comptabilis? in the calculating of the worthy .
in communiquant to the Committee the results of a poll that she had she - even ordered , and who had been led by the sondeur POLLARA of the Party Liberal , she has added :
this is why 90 per of the Canadians are supporters of amend the bill for if ensure that the persons recognized guilty of several embezzler or abuse purchase purgent of the diversion consecutive for each offence .
this is this that has indicated a poll national merit by POLLARA the months last .
this poll has also licences of see that to worthy 8 per of the Canadians are supportive to the quo quo .
you seen clear our condition Parliamentary and policy when of the members representative the population must have Order to the surveys rather that to a debate canola for convince the compassionate political of the opinion public .
Albina Guarnieri retirements therefore the explanation of his bill of bill :
if , by the through of the tax of diversion competitors , you not keeps no account of the other victims who followed the first victim of a violeur or of a meurtrier , this principle is bafou? .
the subject of my bill of bill is of require that each offence to the bill gave a consequential .
of the periods consecutive of not - Eligibility to the releasing naively in the case of embezzler multiple to the Prime and to the second degree and a worthy cons?cutive for each act of abuse sexual favoriseraient a justice proportional who 1 more to the system fair and balanced that Help the Canadians .
honourable senators , the bill of bill C - 247 not fact that add a part legal of more to this that the government has already recorded to the section 745 of the Code criminal , even such that amended in 1996 by the bill of bill C - 45 , Act amend the Code criminal ( review judicial of the inadmissibilit? to the releasing naively ) .
as we the know , the sentencing to perp?tuit? is the worthy minimum for the embezzler to the Prime and to the second degree .
this is the compromise policy that you has fact in 1976 for obtain the abolition of the worthy capital .
this worthy minimum was therefore agreed and parent of a period fixed of sentencing before that the criminal gave the right of ask a releasing naively .
in the case of a murder to the Prime degree , the date of Eligibility to the releasing naively survenait after 25 years specialists of sentencing and , in the case of a murder to the second degree , after a period of sentencing of 10 years .
honourable senators , he sometimes frequently in the public that the you confonde the worthy of sentencing to perp?tuit? for murder to the Prime degree and the 25 years who are indeed purg?es before that the offender not be eligible to the releasing naively .
the worthy of sentencing to perp?tuit? duration until to the end of the life of the offender , as the words the say .
the length of the mandate is similar of the life of the offender .
the date of expire of the mandate is similar of the Late of the highest .
the Service Correctional of the Canada talking of to date of expire of the mandate to .
the worthy duration any the life .
he Jr. a great confusion to this about .
well of the people think that the sentencing to life has a length of 25 years .
the regime of releasing naively is a form of cl?mence Royal who allows to the highest of continue to purger his worthy in the community , outside of the walls of a prison .
a other form of cl?mence Royal is the hubbing of the worthy of death in worthy of sentencing to perp?tuit? .
this is this who has been expected in the bill for give following to the compromise policy of 1976 designed to abolish the worthy capital .
however , this compromise is now threatened by the evolution of the process of determination of the worthy , who compromet the justice she - even .
in 1996 , the bill of bill C - 45 presented by the government modifiait the section 745 for prevent the authors of embezzler multiple of ask a review judicial of their date of Eligibility to the releasing naively .
in doing that , the government has agreed a great part of the reaching of Albina Guarnieri , annoying that the authors of embezzler multiple altering purger a worthy more long before of be eligible to the releasing naively .
honourable senators , I have already developed in doubt the existence even of the section 745 and proposed that he be failing to because of his flaws evident in the bill of bill S - 6 , Act amend the Code criminal ( deadline pre to the releasing naively ) , that I have presented in 1996 .
to the about of the bill of bill C - 45 , I have claimed that this was a amendment to a clause already token .
during the debate of the 12 December 1996 , I have said follows :
honourable senators , in 1976 , the section 745 of the Code criminal has awarded to the courts of the powers inhabituels their allowing of amend the decisions of courts senior - of the powers who are normally although to the during of appeal , to the authorities net of the power of cl?mence or to the Governor General .
he has awarded to the courts of the powers inhabituels their allowing of amend the diversion d?termin?es by the courts mercy of pay of the decisions .
this is someone something who is vacancy to the during of appeal and to the authorities net of the power of cl?mence .
the section 745 has had the effect very unusual of give to the courts the power of give the cl?mence .
this power belongs of full right to some agencies precise .
the bill of bill C - 45 treated these powers to the judges in Leader , this who fall the powers of the Parliament of give following to the wishes of the population .
by against , the powers of the judges in Leader will increased .
as we the know , according the Constitution , these powers not have not been counsel to the judges in Leader or to the courts because that this are of the powers political .
this are of the powers exercised by the representatives of the society .
he not agreeable not that the power of cl?mence of Majesty Majesty be reconciling by the courts or the judges ; he must the be by the executive .
he if is there of a power executive .
honourable senators , the bill of bill of Albina Guarnieri on the diversion consecutive speaks on the manipulation ?rig?s by the government to the section 745 who allows the judges to determine the length of the time of unequalled .
in the case of the authors of embezzler multiple who are patently malins , the bill of bill C - 247 specific that , when the contrevenant is recognized found of other embezzler , the judges can extend the period during which the contrevenant is unacceptable to the releasing naively in him ordonnant of purger a time of unequalled Supplementary who not can however not overtake 25 years .
words said , the time of unequalled not can overtake 50 years .
the section 745 is a solution policy agreed in 1976 for meet a compromise reached in 1976 .
we have need of new solutions and the absence of new solutions in the case of psychopathies virulentes not will that undermine the confidence of the population in the system and that strengthen the claims of the Canadians who wish the restoration of the worthy of death .
the bill of bill C - 247 is a compromise of the year 2000 , who broadsides of the practices occasion , of the flaws of the section 745 and of the diversion generally cut to the Offenders patently malins .
honourable senators , in the case of psychopathies and of psychopathologies Tragedy , the reality , this is that the psychopathes and the sociopathes are more sournois , more rus?s and more ing?nieux that the authorities .
the detainees Bud and Homolka we in limited of the examples frappants .
the fact that the prisonni?re Homolka can continue the government before the courts example to Sen my comments .
honourable senators , he is essential of options to the review of the Parliament our system of justice criminal , his mechanisms of court , the transactions in Equity criminal , the guideline of determination of the worthy and of releasing naively .
during of the hearing that the highest Bud has demand?e in under of the section 745 , I have been witness of this vast rounds that step our system of justice .
the Justice who chaired the hearing chaired a hearing policy .
this hearing was canto and well policy , she not had not a uniqueness legal .
the Justice , the jury and all the world present in this Room the knew .
we minute greatly emotional to the independence of the judges and of the power judicial in positively the judges of this manner .
I am some that the majority of the Canadians could imagine without eyebrows the highest Bud ?visc?r? , ?cartel? , developed to the blanketed and d?capit? , because the crimes that he has committed were and are still extremely r?pugnants for the beings human that we are , but we not believe not to the worthy capital .
hence why we granted this debate today today .
the highest Bud has cost to our country of the billion of $ with his many fantaisies judicial , his prosecutions in justice and his pr?tendues legends legal , there including the hearing that he has demand?e in under of the section 745 .
all this that his notori?t? has had of good , this is that she has licences of the keep incarc?r? .
I then you say that human not the lib?rera .
Karla Homolka is his equivalent the more natural .
honourable senators , I have fact part of the Commission national of the lib?rations reversal .
I have examined well of the issues , of the reports of autopsie , of the reports of police , of the judgments and of the statements of Justice to the time of the determination of the worthy .
I have committees of many detainees and authorized or suspended well of the lib?rations reversal .
I have learned that he is very rare of find home the Offenders a pulsion meurtri?re who is parent of legends pr?dateurs and who if applaud by their taste for the artifice , but that this is however more fr?quent that you the think or that you means well the admit .
the ability of these pr?dateurs of choose their victims in exploitant their vuln?rabilit? is diabolique .
you talking little in the two Houses of the Parliament of the case of paraphilie and of politic , of the psychopathes , of the sociopathes and of the unrest of behaviour .
he must discuss of the unrest of pulsions Tragedy ?rotiques of the Homolka and of the Bud and of their consequences on the system of justice .
the most of between we not can understand their lack of compassion human , their deploy orchestr?es , their d?sirs sexual d?s?quilibr?s , their abuse , their narcissisme absolute and their profligate d?prav?es .
he must that we considering their ability of manipulate with success the people and the systems , including the systems democratic , and their ability to visa on the incr?dulit? and the naive of the people .
Three Essays you report Theory of Sexuality The Dreams Works , volume 7 , the Dr. Sigmund Freud has wrote on the unrest related to the pulsions purchase .
to the page 111 of the edition of 1979 of the home Penguin , he explain follows :
the absence of the roadblocks of the piti? if Adieu of the risk that the link between the legends cruel and the legends ?rog?nes therefore established in the boyhood if indicates impossible to Koreas to the age adulthood .
we talking here of d?viants sexual evil .
he if is of punish of the crimes attracted by of the pulsions ?rog?nes cruellest , incorrigibles and Tragedy .
honourable senators , the fiscal of the power sovereign in the retribution of a crime is a of the aspects essential of the Administration of the justice .
you can read follows to the page 48 :
the right of punish is therefore a aspect of the right of the sovereign of do the War to his enemies ; the right of punish falls of the to right absolute of life and of death that the right Roman Order merum imperium , right in under wherein the reportedly eve to this that his bill be respected in ordonnant that the crimes ensure cries ...
but the retribution is also a average of obtain justice to the plan as staff that public , since the force physico - policy of the sovereign is presented in a sense in the bill ... to
I say well to obtain justice to , honourable senators .
in our system , you talking of prerogative Royal in justice .
the presence of the Queen in the bill , that indicates a expression as the Queen against Homolka , proves clear the right of each citizen of obtain that the Queen , the source of the justice , their convey justice .
she proves the right of obtain justice of the accusateur , be the Queen , and of the victims , in this case - side the small Leslie Mahaffy and Kristen French , who not were that of the children .
the retribution of the crimes and the diversion cut sending on the principles that are the vectors , the neutralisation , the Lehmann and the retribution .
the retribution , to the difference of the vengeance , is the consequential fair of the injured by the offender to the peace of the Queen and to the subjects of the Queen , be , in the case who we nat , all the children .
the retribution can always be temp?r? by the cl?mence of the Queen .
the Justice MacKeigan , of the Court of appeal of the Nova - Nova , presented a Minister of the more solid in favour of the tax of diversion consecutive .
to the page 443 of his judgment of 1975 in the case R . Q Muise , he wrote :
this principle , referred I embrace in despite of the argument very statement of the lawyer of Muise , broadsides of my own conviction who means that the bill , in commission to the Justice the power of condemn a human appropriately found of a offence to a worthy of sentencing , even in the kidnapping to the do , not should not be interpretation as met the obligation made to the Justice of pay a worthy of sentencing for a second offence concomitante with the worthy opportunity by him or a other Justice for a other offence .
in infligeant a worthy quote concurrente to a offender , you not the punit not of the all because that he not is not held of purger a only day of sentencing ; none not can move the even day in prison two time , not more that he not can be Ere two time .
in infligeant a worthy concurrente , a Justice not fulfilling therefore not his duty , to least of power find , in the Code or the right p?nal in General , the power of the do .
I please all the honourable senators of give to the bill of bill C - 247 any the attention ongoing .
I want that the you understands well that he is here question of killers in series evil .
he not if is not of poor young men who , under the suddenly of a accrochage with their parents who the highlights in outraged , if 94 CANBAT to a flight to labour army .
he not is not here question of the offender juvenile pushed .
this are of the people who decision very froidement of killing someone a and who the doing of full grateful with pr?m?ditation and Trapping .
he is clearly time that the system and that the Senate recognize that the politic there .
the hon. Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , I wishes ask a question to the about of this Presented indications with care and regarding a bill of bill very contentious and difficult .
he not appropriate not that I notwithstanding in this context that the Senator Cools would could act in solo , she would could the do , but I wish indeed to say that this is a question very difficult .
the Senator Cools is a human who knows very well this field .
the Senator Cools :
I thank the hon. Senator of his question .
this is the dilemma that valid the section 745 of the Code criminal of the Canada .
many that I far , the majority of the senators are of the abolitionnistes convinced who not wish absolutely not that the you r?instaure a day the worthy capital .
to the time of the Adopted of the section 745 , he not had not been expected that each meurtrier recognized found of murder to the Prime degree if pr?vaudrait of this clause .
in reality , you in is came to contractual this clause of way very routini?re , and this is there that ahead the problem .
the situation to this about is very clear .
in the faults bill C - 45 , the government bearer Rock , the Minister of the Justice of the then , have brought of the changes Island section 745 in view of draw some limits .
the faults bill C - 247 refers that all these changes have been inadequate and that of other measures if impose .
I know that many of senators want speak in the debate on the bill of bill .
in my conclusion to the debate of second Reading , I have the intention of present the historic of the sanctions and of the lib?rations reversal .
I bring to the Senate a presentation on the evolution of the jurisprudence to the during des20 past years and I initiate how she has led to the situation current in the determination of the worthy .
the hon. Senator Finestone has struck in full in the 1000 .
the about demands that the you if in nat .
I hope that some questions surgiront to the during of the debate .
why the judges not impose - they not of the diversion consecutive , as they the can ?
the Senator Finestone :
this is a case very unusual .
the Senator Cools :
I pretend that all the embezzler are inhabituels .
if the argument of the exception Auditor , we not gone not need of laws against the murder because that the embezzler are inhabituels .
if they not the were not , the resources human not opposite more .
this is very true .
I have a amount impressive of documents on this kind of individuals .
this who not is not if unusual home the murderers , this are the chronic .
the r?cidive not is not unusual among this category of individuals that we lifelong the murderers multiple .
some persons , there including Albina Guarnieri , believe that he is necessary of codifier the way way .
in short , ces20 past years , the jurisprudence has evolved in a sense who fact that , today today , the judges not are not inspired to impose of the diversion consecutive .
if you could return to the then of 1980 and vigorous the proceedings Mr. Bud , can - be his sentence would - she completely different of his condemnation to 11 diversion competitors of sentencing to life and the jurisprudence would all other .
we not must not forget that a be human not has that a only life to live .
this is all to fact true .
by example , to the States - United , the courts impose of the diversion of 200 or 300 years .
that not if fact not to the Canada .
in the history of the worthy capital , you find of the criminals conducted several time .
therefore , a human could be condamn?e to be d?capit?e for a crime , this who was generally the fate vacancy to the aristocrates .
she could be condamn?e to die ?cartel?e , mutil?e or br?l?e in of the oil .
he there had of many ways of killing several time the even human .
to the end of the years 1790 , Small J . I. Guillotin has invented the guillotine , also barbare that that can we department of our days , that was considered to the then as a progress fantastique as average of punish the criminals .
you occupation to the then that all the beings human not had that a life to losing and that they not should die that a only time .
left Guillotin has presented his reform , he has said that a be human should die only a time and that his death party be quick .
I hope have helped someone little my hon. colleague .
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin :
in his speech , her the Senator Cools has she said Mr. Bud not will never free ?
the Senator Cools :
yes , I have said someone something of the kind .
the Senator Nolin :
if this man will remain in prison for the rest of his life , could - she we explain why the rule of the right will allow to this individual of remain in prison for the sitting of his life ?
the Senator Cools :
this not is not a question of rule of the right .
Mr. . Bud has been sentenced to the sentencing to perp?tuit? and the courts can include the reopened after 15 years of his Eligibility to a releasing naively .
when I have said Mr. Bud not would never free , I not chair can - be not should use the word to never to .
I chair should say that to this stage - side , all the system and all the persons working in the system Mr. Bud know very well the horror Mr. Bud seen to any the population .
I say to the honourable senators that this sense public very strong is a factor contraignant .
that is wished clear this day - there to the hearing who has had held to Surrey , in British - British .
I am here for say to the honourable senators , and to the Senator Nolin in particular , that if the public cessait a moment of follow the file Bud , he if could well that this man nervous , of a way or of a other , to obtain his implementation in freedom .
of the detainees whose I have heard say that they tueraient a time true of prison , I in have seen a great number .
when I say that I the have heard say these things , I want say that he was fact mention in the reports of their intention of killing to their exit of prison .
I say to the hon. Senator that , if he if find a day opposite to opposite with some of these individuals , as that me is came in the system carc?ral , he will have afraid .
when we considering the bill of bill C - 45 , we had a list of detainees wanting of if unused of the section 745 of the Code criminal , whose some that I had substandard me - even when I toeing to the Commission national of the lib?rations reversal .
in Could the list , I me am reminded in particular of the behalf of a highest who had said to who wanted the hear that he off and tuerait to new .
the Senator Nolin :
hurt age .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the period of time portion for the speech and the questions is completed .
of agreed .
the Senator Nolin :
honourable senators , not we m?prenons not .
if the Commission of the lib?rations reversal has the power of take a decision , this is because that the bill him authority this power .
when I talking of the rule of the right , this is exactly of that that I talking .
I am appalled of hear that the Senator Cools , a former member of the Commission , had the right of take a such decision in as that Commissioner .
she we said now that she was outset , to the then , that some of the individuals who appeared before she were of future criminals , but that she not has nothing fact .
the Senator Cools :
we have took of the measures .
the Senator Nolin :
if find - they still in prison ?
the Senator Cools :
in this case particular , I have dropped the regime of freedom watch whose he b?n?ficiait .
he is business in prison .
I talking of many years more later .
the Senator Nolin :
you prouvez this that I soutiens .
the bill , to the Canada , give all the power to the commission and to the different ministers of the Justice of the provinces .
I not think not that the you can r?habiliter a such individual .
this that I say , this is that the laws current can resolve these problems for little that they ensure colleague properly , not is - this not ?
the Senator Cools :
the Senator Nolin :
if that not enough not , her the Senator think she that two or three diversion consecutive are a solution ?
the Senator Cools :
this that I say to the Senator , and he me includes without doubt very well , this is that four principles must govern the determination of the worthy , and not important what Justice or jury must hold account of these four principles the each after the other .
the a of these principles is the neutralisation , this is - to - say that he must prevent the offender of mistake a other crime .
this that I say to the Senator - well that he r?pugne to the admit , but I will do of my better for the persuade , but he must admit that this will difficult - this is that he there has someone something to correct .
honourable senators , I have under the eyes a section of newspaper who me has been left he there has few days .
he there is question of a highest called Adrian Kinkead , whose I not had never heard speak .
I not known not all the details and I not am not very well typifies , because I not have not took knowledge of the because .
I hook my information of this only section .
in this case - side , the prosecutor of the Department public has asked to the Justice of aside his judgment until to the Adopted of this bill of bill .
that he if abhorrent of this case - side or of a other , I say to the Senator Nolin that , in our evolution policy , we in are prominent to a stage where the Parliament must give a some attention to these questions .
the Senator Nolin :
the Senator we request of we deal on a change of principle to the second Reading .
the Senator Cools :
he not there has not of change of principle .
the Senator Nolin :
this is this that the Senator request .
explain - you because until here , you not the have not fact .
the Senator Cools :
he not there has not of change .
the Senator Nolin :
in the last response that her the Senator has made , she has fact reference to the four principles .
I think that he would good of do know or of remind to to the honourable senators that he there has only few decades , we fouettions still the violeurs to the Canada .
the Senator Cools :
certainly , we had the usual of the explicitly .
the Senator Nolin :
why have - we changed this used ?
to comments , we not lifelong more these people - there of the to violeurs to .
the Senator Finestone :
how the call - you now ?
the Senator Nolin :
I believe that you the Order of the to perpetrators sexual to .
we have evolved .
the worthy not if reduced not only to the punish .
the Senator Cools :
this is a bad example , but That will .
the Senator Nolin :
let - me conclusion of ask my question , I you please .
I have left the hon. Senator conclusion his speech .
today today , he not if is more only of punish .
the determination of the worthy if based on some principles and her the Senator must explain to this House , before that we not we prononcions to the step of the second Reading , what principle she wishes see change , why she means that he be changed , and in what this change affectera he the other principles .
if she sometimes to me convince , I happy happy of the support .
I not believe not that the Senator if be really explained until here , of the least of after this that I have heard .
can - be should - we refer the bill of bill to a Committee before of we deal to the step of the second Reading , because he there has there not difficulty of principles in stake .
the hon. Senator has fact pointed that he there had consensus for not not restore the worthy of death .
why ?
he must well there have of the reasons .
the Senator Cools :
I not doubt not of the grounds of the Senator .
I have said that I chair loved the see if interest all many to the bill of bill C - 45 , by example .
recognize , the bill of bill C - 247 speaks in particular - and the Committee is guest to hear of the witnesses as the professors Manfredi and Knopff - on the four principles of the determination of the worthy .
the legislation legislative underlies to apply of way more retooled the principle of the proportionnalit? , extend who means that the worthy be proportional to the offence commise .
I have a little of difficulty to understand how the hon. Senator can argue that the bill of bill not is not consistent to the principles of the determination of the worthy and I him explain why .
this bill of bill has already been adopted to the House of the Commons and , in the framework of his Adopted , I poured that of many persons the have examined .
this bill of bill of initiative Parliamentary not is not new .
that fact four years that he is examined and examined by the House of the Commons .
I specific to the hon. Senator that the bill of bill respect and confirms the principle of the vectors , the principle of the Lehmann , the principle of the neutralisation and the principle of the proportionnalit? .
this are there the four principles of the determination of the worthy .
the bill of bill is perfectly consistent to these principles .
of more , on the plans policy and legal , he speaks on the manipulation created by the government .
this is the government who has created the section 745 who allows to the judges , this who not if was never seen , of establish the time of unequalled .
this is on this section that if based the bill of bill .
extend - side is consistent not only to the principles of the determination of the worthy , but also to the political who have been adopted by the government these past years and who taking the form of legislation - legislation as the faults bill C - 45 , his version current therefore that the inclusion of the new section 745 to the Code criminal .
the Senator Nolin :
I am course that in his study of this question , the hon. Senator knows that the a of the principles in stake is the Charter of the rights and freedoms .
the Senator Cools :
that he me convey confidence .
I have examined the Charter .
the Senator Nolin :
for terribly the things to the clear , in the case of a contrevenant who if seen impose two diversion , is - this that the sentencing to life correspondrait to a worthy minimum of 50 years ?
the Senator Cools :
this not is not of the all this that move the legislation .
can - be the Senator not includes he not the bill of bill .
the Senator Nolin :
what would the minimum of a worthy of sentencing to life ?
the Senator Cools :
the minimum rest the even for the time in the bill .
the Assent portion by the bill is resuming in this bill of bill .
the Senator not the has can - be not including , but then - I hope the in persuade ?
the bill of bill allows to the Justice , in the case of the sir of diversion multiple for murder , of repudiate of a day or of a year additional the date of Eligibility to the releasing naively .
therefore , if a human is judged , inculp?e and condamn?e to of the diversion multiple for murder to the Prime or to the second degree , the Justice can decide of a worthy of 10 years by example for the Prime murder then add two or three years of sentencing before that the human can be eligible to the freedom naively .
the hon. Senator seems believe that the bill of bill if spend of add 25 years to the worthy to purger .
not .
the bill of bill limit simply the margin of option of the magistrat .
by therefore , in under of this bill of bill , the Justice can add to the sentence a year , or two , or three , or more , until to competition of a maximum of 25 years .
I hope that the Senator includes to present .
the Senator Nolin :
the hon. Senator must give a explanation clear to the honourable senators .
if he is poses that a individual has killed three persons to of the opportunities separate and in of the contexts different , three diversion of sentencing to perp?tuit? him will cut .
he not is not question here of a year , of two years and of three years .
the Senator Cools :
yes , this is this whose he is question .
the Senator Nolin :
her the Senator would - she the please of me explain that ?
the Senator Cools :
I am pleased of provide a explanation to the hon. Senator .
in of other words , as I the have said before , Albina Guarnieri if is seconded on the touchstone legislative created by the section 745 , who allows the Justice to repudiate the date of Eligibility to the releasing naively .
this is the regime present .
the bill of bill allow to the Justice , in the framework of a other worthy , of add two years or five years to the period of inadmissibilit? to the releasing naively .
this aspect of the bill of bill is strong astucieux because he if seen exactly of the reaching who has led to the development of the section 745 and to the amendments to the section 745 in the bill of bill C - 45 .
the reaching is exactly the even .
the Senator Nolin :
what would the maximum ?
the Senator Cools :
the bill of bill specific however that the power Supplementary who is awarded to the Justice of repudiate the date of inadmissibilit? to the releasing naively is deduct to 25 years additional .
this is the limit .
the Senator Nolin :
this is 25 years additional .
the Senator Cools :
this not is not 25 years additional .
this is a total Supplementary of 25 years .
the Senator Nolin :
this is this that you precise of say .
the Senator Cools :
I not have not said that .
in of other words , the worthy of sentencing to perp?tuit? remains .
the highest purge always a worthy of sentencing to perp?tuit? .
by therefore , the powers correct who have been Duty to the Justice to the section 745 are the same that those that move the bill of bill C - 247 , except that he if is of a version extended by report to the version of the section 745 .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , before of adjourn the debate to the behalf of the a of my colleagues , I like return on the speech very interesting and very important that the Senator Cools has sir this after - afternoon and who raises several questions .
I must splendours that his or of Sigmund Freud expliquant this that is a bothers sociopathique of the adversity has win my attention .
I am course that the adherents of the psychanalyse , who has been created by Sigmund Freud , if doing their own idea of the reasons who Senate why the persons if complainants as they the doing , particularly in the population categorically by this legislation legislative .
he would however n?gligent of our share of not not highlight that he there of many other th?ories on the adversity .
I think , by example , that the school of psychologie of Pellan Adler presented a image many more positive of the adversity human , and that even the school of psychanalyse of Carl Gustav addressed presented a image many least black of the adversity human , there including in the case of those who could be diagnostiqu?s as Restoration of unrest sociopathiques of the adversity .
he there has also a school of psychologie , clinical and social , who consider that the adversity human is mall?able and investigator of be corrig?e and d?velopp?e on the plan social .
this that I want add to this debate , this is that , according the psychologists owned to various other schools , the beings human can be r?adapt?s and change election of behaviour .
I not like not that you rest on a Appendix pessimiste , who just , I think , of the theory ?chafaud?e by Sigmund Freud .
that said , honourable senators , I move the adjournment of the debate to the behalf of the Senator Di Nino .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , to the behalf of the Senator Di Nino , the debate is adjourned . )
the Committee of selection
study of the third report - Withdrawn of the section
the Order of the day Order :
study of the third report of the Committee of selection ( position of Speaker to payments lengths ) , presented to the Term 2 November 99 . - ( Conformity hon. Senator Mercier ) .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
his Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators , to know that this section be withdrawn of the Order of the day ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the section is withdrawn . )
Affairs legal and Constitutional
motion Requesting the Authorized of use the documents and evidence collected during of the review of the bill of bill precedent for the study of the bill of bill present - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Oliver , seconded by the hon. Senator Di Nino :
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional to the during of his study of the faults bill S - 17 , Act amend the Code criminal relatively to the harassment criminal and to of other subjects related , during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament , ensure removed to the Committee , when he will been set , for the presented study of the bill of bill S - 6 . - (
the hon. Senator Cools ) .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , the point in question respect the Order to the Rules of the Senator Kinsella to the about of the wording of this motion .
I me am already sir there - above .
the Senator Kinsella cite can - be add someone something .
he if is of a request of confusion on the to - comments of this motion , including the referred of the documents already received and of the evidence already heard by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
I recognize now the speak to the Senator Cools .
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , as I have been stand during any the hour who just of if allowed , I like , if this is possible , that this case be surgeons to tomorrow .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , we not we opposerions not to the adjournment of the motion of the Senator Oliver .
however , that we help if you could resolve the point to the Rules that I have fact because that we are now before of a motion introduced by the senators of this side - side and of a notice of motion presented by the senators of in opposite .
I believe understand that the Senator Cools has many worked to other something this after - afternoon and that His Hon. must if criticized more later .
however , he if can that to of other opportunities , the senators " that of the evidence precedents ensure removed to a Committee .
since he there has two schools of thinking on the question , I believe that we should resolve that today today , before that His Hon. not leaving the Senate .
to the page 90 of the Debates of the Senate of the 3 November 99 , the Senator Oliver attention the existence of precedents .
he declare that the formulation exactly of his motion found in a motion regarding the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal .
this after - afternoon , the report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign regarding his study on the Europe we has been circulated .
to the second page of the report , the Order of referred is reproduit .
in this Order of referred , you find exactly the even formulation , to know that the documents received and the evidence heard on the about , therefore that the business accomplished by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign to the during of the first session of the Session Parliament should be removed to the Committee .
we are of notice that we should continue of resolve these questions as we the have fact by the past .
the Senator Cools :
honourable senators , I will answer for not not losing the fortunate of say few words on this point to the Rules .
the Parliament has closed the session he there has few months and he has now reprinted his activities .
for well understand this question , he must if dealt on the question of the deliberations of committees who not were not completed to the time of the prorogation .
to my notice , the bill of bill C - 7 is completely diff?rentdu bill of bill S - 17 .
we not must not forget that , when a bill of bill is referred to a Committee , in the case present the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , this is exactly there where he if find .
he is stymied there .
he has been left to the Committee .
he must then if ask how the Senate can refer to a Committee a file whose he not has never took knowledge .
when a Committee receives a file of the Senate , he must imperatives to the request in student the bill of bill .
this is the report of the Committee who fact faith of the respect of the request who him has been made .
I have exactly in hands a or , Senator Kinsella .
you talking of a bill of bill who has been referred .
the comment 874 of Beauchesne , sixth edition , specific clear that :
the Committee who not has not concluded his inquiry to the end of a session can do report to the House of this fact , therefore that of the evidence that he has heard .
the report establishes that of the evidence have been heard .
he can in addition recommend that to the session next the House him entrusted the even file and that he can if serve of the evidence recueillie until - there .
in the case of the bill of bill C - 7 , who was proposed by the government with the support of any the equipment government and the full Authorized of the caucus of a party represented to the Senate , the procedure to follow insisted therefore that the chairman of the Committee if honourably to the Senate and presented a report receive that the study of the bill of bill was dilatory and that the Committee otherwise clarify the Position that he d?fendrait more later , since the governments ressuscitent all the issues important whose they are before .
spend simply of the subsection 874 to the subsection 875 , who draws this who following :
to least that the House not the allows to in hold account , a Committee not can do report of the evidence prominent before a Committee similar during of a session prior , except under form of appendice .
the words performatifs here are to to in hold account to .
words said , in the case of the Senator Milne , who chaired the Committee and who not m?nage not his efforts , the government has interest to farewell the evidence already introduced before the Committee and to power speed the business of the Committee .
the Senator Milne and the members of his Committee farm do report of the evidence during the session in during .
he must also thinking that , in General , a Committee can always study and use the documents and the business of a other Committee , even his own business and evidence .
in this case - side , the Committee of the Affairs legal means do report of the evidence heard .
of after me , this is that he has the intention of ask the Authorized of the Senate , pursuant to this that draws clear Beauchesne .
the question that he must ask is the next : the Authorized of do what ?
as the Senate not has never received of report of the Committee on or the a or the other of these bills of bill , he not has no knowledge of the study of these two bills of bill .
by therefore , we not have not need , to the during of the presented session , of a Order of referred of the Senate for refer the evidence to the Committee , because the Senate not the having not in his possession , he not can the refer .
this that he must , this is that the Senate directed a blundering in good and properly form to the Committee for him ask , when he examine this new bill of bill , of examine the evidence that he has received to the about of the other bill of bill .
this that he must , this is a Order of the Senate , a blundering , Requesting to the Committee of examine these evidence in his deliberations , and not that the Senate refer of the documents that he not has not in his possession .
honourable senators , he if is there of two bills of bill different , and the bill of bill C - 7 deserves of be examined of way mechanics and satisfactorily .
the bill of bill C - 7 has been presented of new to the House of the Commons and examined to any steamship .
in substance , the Commons have issued a Order the Authorize to the examine quickly and to the adopt after three lectures .
by therefore , if the Senator Milne and his Committee therefore that the Senator Fraser wish study the bill of bill C - 7 with any the expeditiously ongoing , he enough , he me seems , of if conform to the procedure .
the good way of do not is not of ask to the Senate of refer of the evidence that he not has not , but of ask to the Committee of examine these evidence in his deliberations .
I hope that I have been clear , if I if pleased of me explain more length .
when the Senator Oliver has presented this motion , with the consent unanimous , I me am adjourned and I him have asked if he if 13 of a instructed to the Committee .
he not had can - be not read the section of the Rules , but I believe that his motion was proposed pursuant to the subsection 58 ( 1 ) .
in response to my question , he has said that he not if 13 not of a instructed to the Committee .
the notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) f ) if reads as following :
Peoples instructions to a Committee .
by therefore , the motion is essentially a instructed to the Committee .
I had expected speak more length of the motion of the Senator Oliver tomorrow and propose a amendment that he would been easy of contribute , to know , replace the word to referred to by to examined to .
but this is now all to fact notional .
he we belongs , in as that part Maritimer and op?rante of the Parliament of the Canada , of bringing attention to the procedure exactly of Presented of the motions .
we are sometimes a little negligent , though the word be very strong .
we derision many of things that we could do better in there focused a all small effort .
the purpose of the notice of motion of the Senator Fraser is essentially of go the Committee of the question in subject of way fair and expeditiously order that the Committee can give to the bill of bill the kind of review and of attention that he deserves .
honourable senators , I chair probably better fact if I had whereas to tomorrow for address these questions , but I not wanted not losing the opportunity of the do today today .
in fact , the Committee is free of study the evidence of all the other witnesses .
the only something that he not can do , this is this who is banned by the comment 875 ; he not can do report of the evidence prominent retained except under form of appendice .
the Committee has the powers whose he has need .
this was simply a prerequisite Supplementary .
his Hon. the Speaker :
if no other hon. Senator not means take the speak , I am prepared to pay my decision .
decision of the Speaker
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when this question has been raised the first time , I have consulted the precedents to the Senate .
I will now try of present my explanation in a Order logical .
however , if the you afterthought the Debates of the Senate of the 3 November , this who if is said when the Senator Oliver has proposed the motion is clear :
... with the leave of the Senate and nonobstantl' notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) f ) ...
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the motion of the Senator Oliver was therefore valid because that the leave had been granted .
second , I want refer the honourable senators to the part II of the Rules of the Senate who if entitled to Interpr?tation to and who provides follows :
( 1 ) In all the case not planned to the Rules , the Senate or his committees followed , with the adaptations necessary , the customs , lightweight , formalit?s and procedures of the a or the other of the Houses of the Parliament of the Canada .
he is clear that our Rules , our lightweight and our customs have above on the books of reference such that the Bourinot or the Beauchesne .
we consultons of first our Rules , then we consider our lightweight and our precedents .
the hon. Senator Kinsella has explained in detail two of our lightweight and precedents .
in the case of the motion introduced more earlier today today by the hon. Senator Stewart , the Order of referred is clear :
that the documents received and the evidence heard and the work accomplished by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign to the during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament ensure removed to the Committee ;
in addition , the Senator Oliver , as the has indicated the Senator Kinsella , has said of new the 3 November , to the page 90 of the Debates of the Senate , that that had been fact to a other opportunity .
he we refer to the Journals of the Senate of the 2 April 1998 , page 584 , where you reads that the documents received and the evidence heard to the about of the bills of bill S - 10 and S - 12 have been removed to the Committee for his study of the bill of bill S - 14 .
I can find of other precedents if the senators the looking .
however , such is , to my knowledge , the practice usual of the Senate .
you welcomes of this way order of not not gentlemen the witnesses to come testify a second time on the even about and of not not have to vigorous any the research a second time on a question who has already been desire by a Committee Senate or the Senate .
this is therefore that if explain the practice observed in the past and this is therefore that she has evolved .
the Senator Cools we has removed to the Beauchesne .
as I the have fact pointed , our practices have above on the Beauchesne .
however , even if you read the comment 874 of the Beauchesne , he is well said that the Committee to can do report to the House . to
to my notice , that not excludes not , then , that the Senate adopt a other practice because that he not there has nothing of required .
he not is not said that if that not has not been fact , you not can adopt a other practice .
our practice was different .
I Justice that we can study the motion of the Senator Oliver .
want - you that the question rest placed to the behalf of the Senator Cools ?
the Senator Cools :
yes .
his Hon. the Speaker :
she remain therefore to the behalf of the Senator Cools .
( the question remains placed to the behalf of the Senator Cools . )
the Conference on the equality and the participation of the women to the life public
inquiry
the hon. Lorna Milne , having given notice the 2 November 99 :
that she call the attention of the Senate on his participation regarding the 70e anniversary of the case to human to in the framework of the Conference on the equality and the participation of the women to the life public to the Canada and to the Kingdom - U who if is held to London , in England , the 21 and 22 October .
this series of conferences has been hosted by Debra Davis and if is held to the House of the Canada , to Trafalgar Square , for celebrate the 70e anniversary of the judgment of the Committee judicial of the Council private British grateful that the women are of the persons in bill .
as no Senator Canadian not had been bow to this conference or even informed of his held , I have agreed that I devais there go .
I me am decided to London - to my own fees , must - I add - represent the parliamentarians Liberal of the Canada to the conference .
the conference was divided in several sittings of work , whose I will mention few - concerns .
Nancy Ruth , whose the great - father has been a lawyer of the group of the five women celebrities , has open the conference the Thursday 21 October and we has shown a aspect little different of the history of the case to human to .
in 1929 , the government cast of Ramsay MacDonald just of be elected in Britain - Britain .
the membership of the Committee judicial of the Council private had changed , and the time was perfect for a such decision .
the judges have said , in their decision , that the Constitution was as a tree alive and that she party therefore doctrine with the time .
however , to the Canada , despite the battle that she had win , Faries girl was a conservatrice of the Western and the first openness to the Senate was in Ontario .
when the very hon. R . B . Bennett , a Progressive - Conservative , is became Prime Minister , that has created a openness in the Western , but Bennett has supported that he wanted appoint a Catholic since the last Senator to be appointed was a protestant .
I believe that this not was that a apologize for not not appoint Faries .
the conf?renci?re next has been Frances Wright , of Calgary .
she is chairman - Director general of the Famous Five Patron .
she has she - even met the funds necessary , with the assistance generous of five delay , whose a seat with we to the Senate , nomm?ment the Senator Poy , who not is not here in the time .
she was among the percentage donatrices who have contributed financially to the basic of this wonderful onto to Calgary .
the onto has been d?voil?e the 18 October , to the opportunity of the fiftieth anniversary of the decision of the Council private .
the year next , a other onto will d?voil?e on the Hill of the Parliament , all almost of here , between the Block of the East and the part of the Block of the Centre where is located the Senate .
the week last , I me am arr?t?e briefly to Calgary after have attended to the meeting general Annual of the Party Liberal of the Canada , who if is held to Edmonton , in Alberta .
to Calgary , I have could visit this new ratio performance .
me met sat a time on the Chair of Faries , a wife in chemisier is exit in aware of a dining seat .
he if 13 of Francis Wright , who surveillait his implement .
this is a wife of a subject intellect and very dou?e .
she has spoke of the situation of the women professional in Britain - Britain and has expressed his notice very frankly .
some of the statistics public that she has quotations 18.7 that the women are conspicuously of the high court of justice of Britain - Britain and that they are very little many to evidence the payments of advisor of the Queen , and that in despite of the fact that 25 per of the lawyers enrolled to the bec of this country ensure of the women .
she has said :
you know all the history of Allerednic ...
the reportedly wife a princesse and the equip in souillon .
this is apparently the sad reality for many of women British .
the second group of discussion had for theme to De the p?riph?rie to the centre :
do hear the Senators of the women to .
he was led by Sandra Anstey , chairman of Anstey Associates , of Toronto .
she has underlined that the Nations Nations had greeted the Canada to the Prime rank in the world in this who respect the equality of the women .
the baronne Crawley , chairman of the Commission national of the women in Britain - Britain , runners to this sitting .
she has said :
the Canada has well often shown the seaway to follow , in pr?nant courageusement the equality between the sexes .
to the Kingdom - U , the last government cast has fact elected several women to the House of the Commons , but they represent still least of 20 per of the members .
however , in the new Parliament Scotians , on the 139 members , 48 are of the women .
in England , 40 per of the students in right are currently of the women , but the echelons senior of the profession of the right and of the correction are a bastion of men , and they have a impact enormous on the life to the Kingdom Reconstruction
the Commission of the equality of the opportunity has 25 years in Britain - Britain .
he if is of a body legislative independent , who account 15 commissioners having their office to London and to Manchester .
they have the power of hold of the investigations official , but not the have not fact since of the years .
Ms Barshevkin has spoken the theme to Conformity challenge of the human :
the citizenship of the women in a perspective insightful to .
she has supported that number of changes r?gressifs Own since the case to human to have profoundly influencing on the Position and the rights of the women least favoris?es .
the leaders current of the to third newest to to the States - United , to the Canada and in Britain - Britain not are not still yesterday for drama the damage .
good number of the interventions and a great part of the discussion who have followed have brought on the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms and on the fact that the women British farm well that their country if detailed of a charter similar .
Susan Perry , conseill?re key in equality of the sexes to the Department federal of the Justice , has pointed that the Charter Canadian is global on the rights actions of groups and not of individuals and that this fact only has many amended the right Canadian and the jurisprudence Canadian .
she recognizes however that he if is still of a culture and of a environment very masculins , even to the within of the Department of the Justice and certainly to the within of the Department of the Finance , to the Canada .
by Opposition , Lucy Makinson , conseill?re in policy to the Treasury of Majesty Majesty , has claimed that of great progress had recently been earned for this who is of answer to the concerns of the women to the within of this Department .
however , the Treasury not has always not really affordably to his operating the questions f?minines , then that 45 per of the women British working still to time part and that the salary average of the women is of 80 per Lower to extend of the men for a work of equal value .
in the debate who has followed , Mercier Brown , of the British - British , who is now chairman of the Centre international MATCH , has mentioned that the Charter is a lame to two tranchants and that he there has of the case where of the men the use , with their resources and contacts senior , to the backs of women .
she has held to attention that in fact , he there had can - be of the Stoddard political f?minines to the television British to the hour current , but that the editors political are still particularly masculins .
Trima McQueen , the deputy - chairman Lillian of CTV , has said that the media not understood all simply not .
she has quoted some new recent to the Canada .
all of first , the new Gouverneure general of the Canada , Chairwoman Clarkson , has been immediately attaqu?e in the media to the about of his pr?tendues flaws in as that mother , particularly by of the editors f?minines .
of more , the Court Supreme has decided that the aboriginal could continuation for if esteem in all time .
when the system English of the Corporation CBC - Canada has used the term neutre to fishers to , that has raised a ment home a group of women if caveats to the fishing .
when the Court Supreme has decided that the government federal party to his plead f?minines of the r?troactivit? for a work of equal value , the National Financial has claimed that the Court Supreme was between the hands of f?ministes cutting .
Yvonne Roberts , a journalist pigiste , described :
the media British are a officine of the power , the men having the power and the women met rel?gu?es in the officines !
the women who cases and who leaving then for rise their children or if lead toward a other career are generally attacked , because they not are not ready to to do opposite to the music to .
the situation of the women in Britain - Britain for this who is of the coverage in the media and their participation to this environment is all to fact terrible .
during the sitting entitled : to Changes women and the right :
promotion of the rights of the wife before the courts to , Carissima Mathen , Director of the counsel of LEAF , has spoke of to Faire hear our Senators , to the experience Canadian in Equity of rights to the equality who duration now since 20 years in under of the Charter .
she has underlined that met given that the judges not are not elected to the within of the regime of right British , they can if allow of be impopulaires on the plan policy and of pay of the judgments politically impopulaires , but legally decent .
Anuja Dhir , lawyer of London , has spoke of the Affairs recent the more troublantes to be victimized in Britain - Britain .
first , the rape matrimonial has been legal in Britain - Britain during 400 years following to a famous verdict realized in 1678 .
in 1991 , the verdict realized by a court of appeal has infirm? the fact that a husband had plaid? found for rape marital before a court of decision Lower .
the wife has then interjet? appeal deposited of the House of the Lords , a little as have fact here the five women celebrities .
a group of to Lords legal to not asking that of the men has heard the appeal and administering that to the idea according which a wife party be the ownership of his husband not if limited more and was blessante for the women to .
that if recovered in 1991 .
she has spoke of the mariages forced with many of emotion because that this is a used widespread to the within of his own culture south - Asian .
the Court Supreme was intervened and had qualified this behaviour of kidnapping and of act criminal .
the third example that Ms Dhir has used is extend of the women battues who have killed their earnings Farmers .
well that this syndrome step now to the Canada a part of Defence unfortunate , the invocation of the legitimate Defence or of the provocation as average of Defence demands still to the Kingdom - U that he there gave reaction immediate for that that be unfortunate .
the syndrome of the wife battue not there is not recognized .
she has firmly fact argue that to the equality not means not a treatment equal but means well say a result similar to .
the result is the only part of legislation valid of the real equality .
during the part next , the first oratrice has been the very hon. baronne Jay of Paddington , Boer RCCs of the Sceau Priv? , Leader of the House of the Lords and Minister of the Condition of the wife .
she has named the list of the measures legislation that the government Blair has adopted recently , there including this months - side a credit of tax for children who commonly to the women .
a regime national of salary minimum has been adopted .
you you Boteler account ?
this is the first time that he there has in Britain - Britain a salary minimum and this legislation if is traduite for 1.3 million of women by a increase of treatment .
the hon. Hedy Frey , Secretary of state to the situation of the wife , has then took the speak and has fact honour to the Canada .
she has reprinted of new the statistics Canadian and underlined to what point they if are weaponry to the during of the past years .
she has spoke with eloquence of our Act on the equity in Equity of employment and of to the analysis based on the equality man - wife to that demands now the bill Canadian .
she has mentioned that the idea of a policy to Universal to of equality of the sexes has now been abandoned .
we mesurons now the equality in service of the results to the Canada and not in service of a bare process of equality .
not only the conference has been very enlightening , but she has represented for the Canada a good suddenly in Equity of relations public .
in effect , the press British we has spent in a only section more of space that she not we in had spent during any a year .
this section was the implement of Yvonne Roberts and if intitulait : to Northern rights to .
the week following the conference , she has r?cidiv? with a section all also long , entitled : to Under has blaze of Northern rights to , who knowing the testimonials of the record realized by the Canada .
short , that has been a conference really remarkable , and I am proud of there have attended .
his Hon. the Speaker :
if human of other not means speak , the debate on this inquiry will considered as concluded .
the federalism and the globalization
inquiry
the hon. rald - A .
Beaudoin , having given notice the Tuesday 2 November 99 :
- honourable senators , I have had the privilege , in October last , of participate to the Forum of the f?d?rations who if is held to the Fusiliers - Tremblant and who has met more of 550 representatives and expert .
this conference touchait four great themes : the federalism , the citizenship and the diversity social ; the federalism economic and social ; the relations Intergovernmental in the f?d?rations ; the political Social and the federalism .
more of 30 groups of work have been constitu?s for deal of a great number of subjects , whose the sharing of the powers , the globalization , the relations Intergovernmental and the citizenship .
the two chairmen , Stanburys Rae and Henning Voshereau , have fact a work remarkable and have chaired more of a plenary whose the a on the new Means of the federalism .
the Forum of the f?d?rations will a existence permanent .
the next planning will held in Switzerland in two years .
the government Canadian has paid a amount employees 500 100,000 $ for the held of the Forum of the f?d?rations .
to my notice , this forum had his reason of be .
I have had the good fortune of chairman a table NRTEE on the federalism and the globalization and this is on this about that I like today today say few words .
to grant era modern , the Canada is the a of the more oldest f?d?rations ; he is the third , after the States - United , in 1789 , and the Switzerland , in 1848 .
our Constitution has many evolved .
the history we Federated that we have of the phases of centralisation and of d?centralisation .
we are currently in a Phase of d?centralisation .
little of country have spent many of time and of energy that the ours to the changeover of a federalism balanced .
you note , in the world , a interest growing for the federalism .
as the fact pointed the professeurRonald Watts , who was a acteur linked to the Forum of the f?d?rations :
he there has ninety - five years , he not there had to the world that a only newspaper and two centres of research on the federalism .
he there today today several newspapers , and the Association international of the centres of studies of the federalism , who if together each year , account 23 centres and instituts dans15 country needs on the five continents .
he is good of if dealt on some makes of our Constitution and of if questions on the consequences that the globalization could have .
in Equity of treaties , the Canada has adopted the system dualiste .
in several country , the signing of a treaty change the bill of the country .
he must in more , to the Canada , legislation for put in Bill the treaty who has been signed .
according the jurisprudence , this is the authority federal who sign the treaties .
for put in Bill a treaty , he must follow the sharing of the skills legislation between the federal and the provinces .
therefore in has decided the jurisprudence in 1937 , and this jurisprudence not has not wider since .
this sharing of skills reflects well the needs of the Canada , to my notice , of many more that we have two systems of right private : the right Civil for the Quebec and the to way way to for the other provinces .
to the Canada , this is the authority federal who can legislation extraterritorialement , who ?met the passeports and who manages the policy foreign .
to the within of the Agency of cooperation cultural and technical , the Quebec and the New - Brunswick have the even status of government participant .
the government federal has agreed in some case that of the ministers provincial actually part of the delegations Canadian to the abroad and carry the chairman to the opportunity or act to payments of deputy - chairmen .
the 17 November 1965 , the Canada and the France have signed a Agreement cultural franco - Canadian who habilitait the provinces to conclude of the agreements directly with the France in the field of the culture .
a province can , to the within of this agreed - framework , conclude of the agreements directly with the France .
if the agreement exceeds the framework of the agreed , then the federal must the ratify for him conferring a validity .
good number of agreements France - Quebec have been treaties of this way .
the arrangements administrative are came add a part Supplementary of flexibility to the within of our system federal .
they not incomplete not the Constitution , but facilitent his application .
they are necessary in the federalism modern .
he there has had to the Canada a agreed administrative in December 1975 between the authority federal and the provinces in the field of the rights of the human .
this agreed fixed the mechanisms of cooperation and of consultation of the two levels of government in the phases of application to the Canada of the rights of the human .
the federalism modern , in the perspective of the globalization , becomes of more in more of today .
therefore , the Ratification of the Agreement of free Exchange North - American has heavy the process of globalization in America .
the trade and the trade not familiar almost more of boundaries .
he in is therefore in the other parties of the world , in Europe , by example .
the impact of the globalization if fact feel to all the levels : commercial , cultural and policy .
of even , the erosion of the sovereignty of the States to the profit of great never - the NAFTA , Union European - is of more in more visible .
the state federal can promote the participation of his components to the process of globalization all in ensuring the cohesion of his policy foreign .
to the Canada , you think spontan?ment to the Heads of the Francophonie .
he could ceased of other areas .
as the Compensating the professor Richard Simeon to the Forum of the f?d?rations to the Fusiliers - Tremblant :
what that be the good point of view , he is clear that with the globalization , the federalism not constantly not of ceased to the border : the forces global have of the effects powerful on the relations to the level national , and the uniqueness federal of the country is inevitably projet? on the scene international .
in conclusion , I quote few citations of the Presented of the professor Earl H . Fry to the Forum of the f?d?rations , who if is held to the Fusiliers - Tremblant in October 99 :
he is obvious that he met increase the consultation and the cooperation between the governments if the plans federal want advantage of the many opportunities who their are educational and reduce to the minimum the impact separate of the globalization .
to the enter of the new century , he there has very strong opportunity that the trend to the globalization if accentue still and that the interconnection between the economies local , national and international if heritage .
the model Canadian is can - be a good point of departure for the f?d?rations d?sireuses of put on foot or of peaufiner the institutions and procedures Intergovernmental necessary for if adapt to the globalization to the 21 century .
his Hon. the Speaker Acting :
if no other hon. Senator not wishes take the speak , the debate on this inquiry will concluded .
the situation of the aboriginal and their future
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Aur?lien Gill , having given notice lejeudi 4 November 99 :
that he call the attention of the Senate on the situation of the aboriginal order of we allow of do the point and of reflect on the measures update for the future .
I not you surprendrais not not more if I you groups share of my enthusiasm and of my faith .
since a year , I follows , I hear and I hear .
he is time now of take the speak .
my identity and my life witnessing of my principles and of my convictions .
when I problems in front , I note how was difficult , during my time of life , the fight for the simple recognition of this that I am .
I have participated to this fight , to this combat , to this r?veil and , on this long path , I have often developed my principles to the unequalled .
I consider as a duty of me serve of my Position to the Senate for still better express this to what I believe and this why I have lived the life who was the mine .
the speak door a message , he must the say and the repeat , with always more of serious and of wisdom .
the speak is often all this that he we rest .
you see that I rise my role to the seriously and I the take therefore as and also long that he me will given of power me express publicly .
the Senate is exactly the held for supporter these words serious that we minute in we , of the words who we originated all and who have a interest national .
the Prime Minister of the Canada , Mr. Jean tien , d?montrait his openness of spirit in me competency to the Senate .
the question of the First Nations is of a great importance for the Canada .
he in will of his future .
we the let too often as a Hydro , a point of the grandchildren cauchemars recurring whose we we happen the time of the forget .
gold , the heart of the question not is that rarely spoken .
this is in the air of the time that of speak of the new millennium who if opens before we .
the 20 century not will not been favourable to the aboriginal of this country .
the 19 century had been assistance and trickle .
that fact therefore 200 years that our Nations are the suffering - pain of the history .
we have been d?pouill?s of our identit?s .
our Lands attend spoli?es .
the treaties not have not been respected , you we has developed in tutelage .
we f?mes overlooked in the Alexander 60 of the addiction , of the paternalism , purposes of a bill inique , prisoners of the reserves Indian , submitted to all the pressure of the assimilation .
can - we hope that the next century be finally extend of the model , of the toll and of the rebirth ?
having long been on the furthering of these struggles , my notice must well have someone negative .
in as that former Leader of the Nations montagnaises and of the Attikameks , to the payments of former Leader of my community of Mashteuiatsh , to Guadeloupe - Bleue , I am of those who argue that we miss now of time .
he there has emergency in the remains .
if someone change basic not is not commencing soon in our loss policy , I have the conviction that the things tourneront difficulty .
for the moment , we conclude of the crises to the Room , in the hope that each if r?sorbe .
since 20 years , he in is therefore :
Kanesatake , Ipperwash , Gustafsen Lake and Burnt Church .
he is happy that no not gave really d?rap? .
each would could we plonger in of the drames many more evolving that this that we have known until to this day .
I not can stay silent on of the subjects of a if great importance because here , the silence is disappointment .
well course , since 40 years , we have all fact of the path .
we have even reached a point that the you not could imagine when I was young man .
more human not degenerated the fact that we are the first population of this country .
we conclude on this land , today today called Canada , since of the mill?naires .
the Constitution Canadian testimony of our right .
however , if our right is claimed in the document founder of the nation , the content of this right rest a mystery to the eyes of several .
jadis , in a past who not is not if compassionate , our ancestors have received the new arrivants and they the have drafting .
the first part of the history of our relations in is a of partnership .
this not is that more later that the mood of the guest has changed .
yes , he should r??crire the history .
we have a great share to this history , but this share we is also ni?e , as was denied our commitment to our Lands , as attend ni?es our contributions to the survival , to the life and to the philosophical .
he would pressing of the teaching , of the according , in a word of learn to the recount .
Sachons that the concept of the two Nations fondatrices or Peoples founding we has fact very difficulty , to we of the First Nations .
the Canada has canto and well a deputy of foundation when he if is of build his representation national .
how platform what that this be on a situation oversight , on a similar misunderstanding ?
we have been and we are always .
we have been useful in the war , in the trade , in the institution of the hampered , in the alliances , in the amiti?s , in the construction of this country .
we have been and we are always , we the Montagnais Innus , we the Ouje , the Wendat , the Ojibways - Anishinabes , the Blackfoot - Siksika , the Assiniboines , the Lilioets , the Tsequoitin , the Haidas or the Gitchwin .
we must see that despite all the efforts , despite the years who if ?coulent , the great majority of the Canadians know the essential and the important in this who respect the First Nations .
the last commission Royal on the about , the Commission Erasmus - Dussault , the keenly a time still , and she in knowing a eminent dramatique : yes , the Canadians know still the essential and this ignorance has of the consequences political .
I conclusion that she push on the showing policy because , we the know all , the ignorance casts the prejudice and the prejudice exasp?rent .
hence the uproar that the you committed .
the existence and the persistance of this speech in the year 2000 represent for all the Canadians a failure evolving .
the First Nations not attend for absolutely nothing in the drafting , the enacted and the application of the Act on the Indian .
but who knows to the Canada the existence even of this bill , who in knows the nature , who can in measure the tragic scope , the historic consequential ?
the status of Indian Canadian in is a of under - citizenship .
the bill applies the concept of tutelage .
this long tutelage we has infantilis?s and the history fact the evidence that we have all lost , there including our dignity .
the Act on the Indian , well that overhaul and amended , there always in his spirit General .
she has created , on a period of 125 years , a situation Spector , a world 60 , the world complex of the reserves Indian , the addiction eliminates , the Alexander closed of the Affairs Indian .
the Canadians in General , the Canadians well ?duqu?s in particular , not familiar not the treaties .
they know still least that no treaty not has been respected by the state Canadian and the other governments .
that the you point the misunderstandings , that the you convey appeal to all the contingences that the you cite , that not foundations nothing to the results .
we have been flou?s in all the dimensions of our identity , in all the recoins of our rights the more basic .
but that rest a secret well touch .
he enough of read and of hear our Stoddard and our wager the more distinguished for enable , day after day , how the ignorance fact of the damage .
you recognizes more easily the situation of the Timor oriental that similar who pourrit to the within of our own country .
the Canada not has always not fact his review of conscience in this who has relates to the First Nations .
he there has had inequity to the regard of those who attend vilifying of the Sauvages , then of the Indian , then of the Am?rindiens , then of the aboriginal , then you not knows more what invent .
this great inequity perdure to the within of a society Canadian who claims not not the indiscriminate .
nothing not is possible or not will possible without that this br?che admired not be r?par?e , without that justice be made .
I repeat that , during my time of life , we have fact of the path .
unfortunately , the recognition of our rights seems play in our d?faveur .
the content of these rights remains a mystery , seems he .
this recognition in exasp?re more of a .
in as that Peoples , we are Raised as of the threats .
our destiny is became legal .
we are coinc?s between the corridor ?troit , for not not say abstrait , of the right , and the reality duration , for not not say tordue , of the prejudice on the ground of the true life .
this is the history of the First Nations , the a we slogan this that the other we refuses .
a day or the other , he met in slipping .
the First Nations bilious to the self , to the responsibility and to the dignity .
for in slipping , exactly , he must Koreas the circle condemned of the tutelage and the hell of the addiction .
the Affairs Indian conscious very sir to the Canadians and the results will negative .
he is necessary and pressing of your to the First Nations a place in the loss Canadian , a place policy , economic and geographical .
we d?fendons our rights , we d?fendons our identity , we we battons for our future to the within of the nation Canadian .
I am Senator and I am aboriginal .
I not want not have shame of my country .
I have worked any my life to the restoration of our rights , because we have the right of be and of be proud in as that Dene , in as that Inuit , in as that Sarcees or tis .
a great foss? rest to fill , but he must the preferred .
in the years who come , to departure of this institution that is the Senate , I hear do my humble contribution to the value of the speak and of the wisdom .
I wager on the wisdom .
in this spirit , I close Order to all the notice and advice that he me will possible of obtain in the levels of the contained and of Communications , because he is essential that the message proceeded .
we must all work to the openness of the spirit .
in my interventions next , I me move of return before you with more of information .
I me move of participate fully to the discussions of the Committee Standing of the Peoples aboriginal .
I am determined , to departure of my position to the Senate and in the legislation of my means , to all put in implement for thrust the debate in a sense positive .
we we must all of rise the level of this debate and the action the more high introducing to inform the public Canadian of the issues enemies .
he must combat all together the effects devastating of the misinformation , of the analyses quick , of the accusations replace .
if we not r?ussissons not to do this debate to the Senate , who therefore there r?ussira ?
despite any the ignorance ambiante who g?n?re as of docu , despite the fact that several corporate of the situation to departure of a parcelle of information , he rest that the situation of the aboriginal is dramatique .
missed say to the Algonquins of the 600 , to the Ojibways of the west of the Ontario , to the Ouje of the west of the pushed of James , to the Tuchones of the Yukon that all will for the better in the better of the mondes .
missed visit the reserves Indian of the year 2000 , you thumb that he not there has not held of be cynic or sarcastique .
follows not is not a stake of word , this not are not of the views of the spirit .
to the even payments that the poverty , the question of the First Nations step this that I appellerais a emergency national .
we must be refurbishing in our responsibilities .
he is necessary of invent to the wide national a structure who , for the moment , not there not .
he must go more far that the Senator of right .
the aboriginal must hand of their present , of their future .
already that the challenge is colossal , not would - he not finally statement that of we let the fortunate of the met ?
in conclusion , I you pretend that the case will more far .
if the Canada not find not the average of solve this case , the Canada not r?soudra nothing in as that nation .
he must certainly drama of emergency but he met also we expand , grow and contributing to the hampered economic and cultural of this country .
grant to indianit? to not if pretends not to the moccasins , to the dance and to the traditions .
the Canada of tomorrow will also extend of the First Nations .
because we have survived to a well sad history .
we take our place , we the reprenons , we must succeed to restore the former partnerships .
he not there has not to qualify the qualify .
how of drain , of intelligences , of commissions , of consultation , of committees special , of research that takes he ?
during the 50 past years , I believe well that all has been said .
rest to create , to striking excursions the process historic who we will ceased collectively and dignement .
the First Nations must if governance .
the process is irr?versible .
for grow of way independent , he must of the territory and of the resources , he we must a place to we in this country .
he we must avertir , open the spirit , contributing to the implementation in place of this who not there not still , promote the creativity , the Innovation policy , the return of the responsibility , of the self and of the dignity .
I wish to this that the Canada if example , I not keeps not to this that he if d?grade .
the First Nations must if office of they - same with a treasury who not is not laboured , with of the rights affirm?s , with of the resources , with a Senators in the Affairs national .
we have a Coast enormous to predated .
he is impossible that you we refuses the right real of do we - same this that human not can do to our place .
( on the motion of the Senator Watt , the debate is adjourned . )
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , as we sit today today a little more long that we not the do usually the Wednesday , if the Senate there hear and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) has ) of the Rules , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology be authorized to sit during that the Senate seat today today and that the application of the subsection 95 ( 4 ) be suspended to this regard .
his Hon. the Speaker :
is - you of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
transport and Communications
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the section 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications be authorized to sit during the sitting of the Senate of today today , and that the application duparagraphe 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the leave is - she granted ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Board of specifications of the environment for the children
Adopted of the motion of institution
the hon. Mira Spivak , pursuant to the notice 2 November 99 , move :
that the Senate urge the government to tough a office of specifications of the environment for the children , be a body independent responsible of promote the protection of the children against the risks environmental .
the senators who have sat to the Committee on the bill of bill C - 32 and who have heard the representatives of the Institute Canadian of the health Propaganda regarding the institution of this office familiar a great part of my reaching .
the first of these reasons , and who is certainly enough , is that we have angry need of this office of specifications of the environment for the children .
the children are more Millenium by the polluants environmental .
to the Committee , you we has explained why , in words scientific , and he worth the worthy of the repeat because this is the key of all the rest .
during the six first months of his life , a b?b? ing?re seven time more of water by kilogramme of negative that a adulthood .
a child of a to five years mange three to four time more of foods , by kilogramme of negative , that a adulthood .
a b?b? endormi seen a volume of air two time more important that not the fact a adulthood to the repos .
all that means that the water , the air or the foods pollu?s have a impact many more dismantling on a child that on you .
this impact suggests sometimes of the s?quelles for any the life ; he is sometimes irr?versible .
when the b?b? if find still in the body of his mother , or when he is nursed to the within and that the body of his mother is pollu? , a low amount of nerve delivered to the bad time can standard the legs , the surdit? , a crisis c?r?brale or a prohibits independent .
to the during of the past decades , the scientific have could the see in the framework of the studies intimate deposited of children presentations to the plomb or whose the mothers had consumed of the fish pollu? to the wastes revenues of the Lakes Lakes or still deposited of children Regarding in of the communities victims of hospitalizations to the m?thylmercure .
this months - side , the Centre visitors Health The Environment The Justice of the States - United has released a amount important of new data on the effects of a pollutants sensitivity Unleash , the dioxine .
the finding the more encroachment of this report , this is that the dioxine frequently certainty in the foods enough for entraver the growth and the development of the children .
the beef hach? contains normally 1.5 parties of dioxine by trillion , the tuck persill? milligrams parties and a pilon of chicken or a morceau of aiglefin 0,03 parties by trillion .
the nourrissons absorbent each day a amount of dioxine many more high that the adults .
the reason , this is that the dioxine if myth in the milk maternel .
according some studies , the babies nourris to the within to the Canada absorbent 26 parties by trillion of dioxine , be approximately 30 per of more that the babies to the States - United , more of the double of this that absorbent the babies in Russia and more of eight time this that absorbent the babies in Thailand .
I not in known not the reason .
what are exactly the effects of the dioxine on the children ?
you has established a link between the exposing to the dioxine before the birth and a more low quotient beloved , a behaviour renferm? or d?pressif , the hyperactivit? , and a system immunitaire more low .
the dioxine has a effect so powerful that you has also observed that she had a effect on the form of the sexes .
the report contains of the workplace of recommendations for prevent the malaise future .
he suggestion , by example , to the place of br?ler the ordures , the key source of dioxine , of do of the Unemployed intensif , of reduce the wastes and of put in place of best measures of protection of the environment .
a other suggestion , this is of stop of br?ler the wastes medical and dangerous , of eliminate phase the Contents plastiques who are a other source important of dioxine , or of ban the pesticides tainted to the dioxine .
we have the choice .
of the children have paid sir for that we acqu?rions the knowledge Brunswicker lead to the prevention , but human not can say to the government how apply these knowledge .
this is a service whose if struck a office of specifications of the environment for the children .
he d?finirait the present bloc of the knowledge and collaborerait with of other departments and agencies of the government for that you du account of these knowledge on the children in the development of the regulations .
without this office , the rate of pollution tol?rables continue presumably of be intended in the purpose of protect the men adults layout , and not the women and the children .
however , this not is there that a part of this who warranted the implementation in place of the office .
we have also need of the office for lead the research on of the questions troublantes experienced we not have not still found of good Questions .
why the number of the children asthmatiques has he quadrupl? since few decades ?
a office of specifications of the environment for the children could promote this kind of research , as could the do the centres of excellence for the well - be of the children .
he there has more of two years and half , the government has promised of appropriating 20 million of $ on five years to the research on the health of the children who would instituted by the new centres of excellence .
a Diori of months have past , but nothing not has been fact .
I hope that the government instead the implementation on foot of these centres and if tighten on of other recommendations included in the speech of the Throne .
this is to worthy if we granted account of the health of the children when we envisageons of the Estimates , of the regulations or a policy .
we not know even not what Contents dumping if find usually in our reacts of games , our garderies and our schools .
we not have not of lines guidelines designed to reduce the exposing of the children to of the Contents dumping there where they pressing the more clear of their time .
he there has of other duties that could assume a office of specifications of the environment for the children .
second , we should support this motion for do in sort that our country respect the commitments that he has took in remedied the statement of 1998 that the leaders of the G - 8 have made on the health of the children and the environment and in banning the Convention of 1991 Current to the rights of the child .
for meet these commitments , he must a leadership policy , a leadership as extend whose we have been witnesses to the States - United . to little almost to the even time where our leaders promettaient to their constituents all sorts of measures for the children , the chairman Clinton has ordered to all the agencies federal of determine of way priority the risks for the security and the specifications Environmental evidence of have of the impact Maximizing on the children and of amend the political , the programs , the activities and the standards in because for correct this imbalance .
little after , laU.S. Environmental Mammals Agency has created his office of specifications of the environment for the children order of if conform to the request of the chairman , and the body has announced the implementation in place of a program in 1995 - a program national designed to protect the health of the children against the risks environmental .
you not knows not clear what share of the changes he must wants to the office and to the programs developed in place by the EPA .
this that the you knows however , this is that laU.S. Grains Quality Mammals Act demands now the reassessment of the levels of tolerance regarding almost of 10 100,000 pesticides , that the new standard atmosph?rique linked to the ozone should if publicize each year by a million of case of span pulmonaires of least home the children and that the EPA request to his staff of take in consideration the new - Regarding , the children and the women repatriated when she establishes the standards Impediment to the water terrifying .
if , however , we we concentrons on the more vulnerable of between we , to know the children in growth , we regards all a better fortunate of be protected .
I know that the office proposed has engagement the enthusiasm of the senators of in opposite when he in has been question to the Committee .
I hope sincerely that the interest of some of between them not if is not d?menti and that these senators convey to the debate and convaincront their colleagues of support this motion .
his Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate if adjourned to 14 p.m. tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 9
the Thursday 18 November 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
the business of the Senate
the hon. John B . Stewart
tributes to the opportunity of his departure to the retirement
' ' '
the Day national of the child
Mr. . Irwin Cotler
congratulations to the opportunity of his election as member of the riding of Fusiliers - Royal
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
Banking and trade
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
education post
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Special
the adjournment
the Act on the divorce
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to allow the meaning Electronic
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to clerical of the services
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to examine the facts new regarding the Assisted and the assistance to the suicide
Banking and trade
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to study the situation of the regime financial domestique and international
privileges , Rules and procedure
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
languages official
Authorized to the Committee Joint Standing of sit in even time that the Senate
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Affairs foreign
the Sudan - Position participation of the society Talisman EnergyInc. - Position response to the criticism of the community international
the Sudan - Position participation of the society Talisman EnergyInc. - Position policy of the government on the Opposition between the plateforme of the security human and the interests of the investors
the trade international
the Agreement of free - Exchange North - American - Conformity proceedings basically by a society Processors in consequential of the loss of a contract of Purchase of water in vrac - Position Position of the government
the policy of the government regarding the Defence against of the proceedings class by of the companies
the business of the s?nat
Order to the Rules
Order OF orders
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading - Continued of the debate
the Act on the Defence national Position Act on the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques Conformity Code criminal
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading
referred to the Committee
the Act admissibility the taken of decisions Medical
second Reading - Continued of the debate
Affairs legal and Constitutional
motion Requesting the Authorized of use the documents and evidence collected during of the review of the bill of bill precedent for the study of the bill of bill present - Stands of the debate
Authorized to the Committee of use the documents and evidence collected during of the review of the bill of bill precedent for the study of the bill of bill present
the SENATE
the Thursday 18 November 99
the sitting is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker met to the Chair .
prayers .
the business of the Senate
his Hon. the Speaker :
I happy replaced to the Chair by the new Speaker pro tempore , the Senator Losier - Losier , that I congratulate for his appointment to this position .
the hon. John B . Stewart
tributes to the opportunity of his departure to the retirement
the hon. B . Alasdair Graham :
honourable senators , the first time that I have met the Senator John B . Stewart , he there has of many years , he was already strong respected in the sector academic for have fact of the studies of Prime graduate to the University graduated and of the studies higher to the University Columbia to New York , therefore that for have been successivement professor of Science political and steering of the d?partement of Science political to the college Barnard of New York .
John has been associated to the Foundation Rockefeller until to his return in Nova - Nova , in 1959 , where he is joined to the d?partement of Science political of the St. Francis Xavier .
approximately three years more later , the professor Stewart was elected member for the riding of Antigonish - Guysborough .
he was re in 1963 and in 1965 .
these events doing part of my best memories political .
after the ?clatante victory remport?e by Diefenbaker in 1958 , the Association Liberal of the coincidental of Antigonish - Guysborough has decided that we find we put in soon of a candidate who be the more dignified of faith that possible .
each time that he there had a discussion , someone a if enqu?rait to the about of this new professor , John Stewart , to - as they the appelaient sometimes -St. FX .
who would enough of influence and of credibility , in fact , of courage for the call ?
he has fact in sort that the professor Stewart if find in his office in the former wing on the campuses of the quoted university , by a Saturday night orageux .
the telephone You :
All? ?
professor Stewart ?
here Lester Pearson .
and the rest , this is of the history !
a small precision to comments of this anecdote : the senators if recall Mr. Pearson was fanatique of sports and that he followed regularly the matches of hockey Canadian diffus?s to the television , the Saturday night .
the appeal to the professor Stewart erroneous of Stornoway and has had held between the first and the second period of the match origins the Canadians of Montreal to the Maple Leafs of Toronto .
the Senator Mahovlich :
who earned ?
the Senator Graham :
if I me in recall well , Frank was the third star this night - there .
during the six years that he has fellow to the House of the Commons , John Stewart if is revealed the student the more hard of the system Parliamentary that he me gave been given of know , if distinguant , as he the has fact any his life during , by his work seriously , succeeds essentially for the more great well of his province of origin and of his country .
each of his during was archi - comble .
someone a has already said that the influence of a enseignant or of a teacher if discriminates for always .
he or she not knows never where if limit this influence .
in the case of the professor Stewart , who has the reputation l?gendaire of ably of the people who seniors of the scholarships of the Foundation Scholars , this influence has indeed been enormous .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
they number can - be fact someone something of well !
the Senator Graham :
fortunately , the professor Stewart is came there to time for take in labour and orienter the Prime Minister of the New - Brunswick , Frank McKenna .
the professor Stewart has also persistent of the thoughts to the about of his experience Parliamentary and released two books doing authority and posing by a vast public regarding the process Parliamentary . In a of his books precedents entitled :
Political The Moral Thought of David Hume , the professor Stewart has shown his concern continuing to the regard of the touchstone moral of the policy democratic .
he has including quoted a from of the work idea of this philosopher Scotians who is considered as a of the pioneers of the Science political :
of all the men who if distinguent through to their accomplishments crash , the place of honour seems return to the legislators who transmettent a system of laws and of the institutions designed to guarantee the peace , the happiness and the freedom to the generations future .
Hume has fully of the generations of parliamentarians in become , all these representatives of the population binge and fair who had including that the reason of be of a good government is of including of the laws and of the institutions substance on the justice .
of fact , the Senator John Stewart party become to the over of his long career Parliamentary the quintessence even of the l?gislateur wise and conscientious imagin? by David Hume several centuries before : a l?gislateur who continues unassuming this who is fair ; a l?gislateur who saisit the importance of the resolute in the creation and the protection of our society free ; a l?gislateur having to heart the well public ; a l?gislateur who not suggests nothing to the accident ; a man who has prompting a spirit exhibited and a energy instincts to the service of his community , of the students , of his province and of his country ; a patriot thought who has always including , as the means the old adage , that those who if waiting to r?colter the evolved of the freedom must in pay the price .
the deep sense of the service of John Stewart the has led to put a energy incredible in the committees , that this be in the Committee of the fisheries or in extend of the Banking or still in his service important and very powerful of chairman of the Committee of the Affairs foreign , in Work with jurisdiction and expeditiously all the questions complex who together of the Position respected of the Canada on the scene World .
he there has a little more of a century , the idea CanadienEdward Blake has spoke of manner simple of the latitude of the Parliament to the House .
he has said :
the privileges of the Parliament are the privileges of the people .
the rights of the Parliament are the rights of the people .
these words , honourable senators , have been the Gallery of the life and of the then achievement of the Senator John Stewart .
the rights and the privileges of the Parliament taking their source in the rights of our people - in the privileges , in the wisdom and in the humanity of our people .
having had the great privilege of have John Stewart for mentor and having been for him a colleague and a friend during of many years , I am proud of say that a place of honour particular and well deserved works to this l?gislateur learned and honest , this wise and dedicated faithful of the people and this enseignant drama who has left his Gallery ind?l?bile and linear in the history .
yes , a place of honour particular works to the Senator John Stewart , who will angry miss to the during of the days and of the years to come to good number of between we who are to the service of our wonderful country .
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I not have not led of inquiry specific deposited of the honourable senators , but I believe that the Senator Graham and me - even know the Senator Stewart since more long that anyone of other to the Senate .
in all case , we we are met for the first time he there has 40 years .
that me give , me seems he , a sure right and a some jurisdiction for speak of him .
in 1959 , be few years after have obtained my diploma of the St. Francis Xavier , I have led the office of the graduates to Antigonish .
this fall - there , the professeurJohn B . Stewart is income in the province and the coincidental where he is born after have left his position of enseignant - whose has spoke the Senator Graham - to the University Columbia and his service of advisor to the Rockefeller Patron order of office of the duties of professor of Science political to the St. Francis Xavier .
each day of class by the following , the professor Stewart and me have Dene together to the even table , in the Room to eat of the priests of the St. FX .
in this who was to the then the St. of the saints , John Stewart and me were two foreign - him , a protestant , and me , a Progressive - Conservative .
fortunately for John Stewart , this was also the then where the movement oecum?nique saw the day under the leadership of the Pope Jean XXIII .
the priests tendaient the labour of the lively , of the friendship and of the brotherhood to those that they appelaient to our brothers planners to , whose John Stewart knowing part .
unfortunately , he has onerous a little more of time to the r?v?rends Fathers for if take of sympathy for the Progressive - Conservatives .
what that he in be , to few opportunities to the Senate these past years , sometimes to of the times rather tendus of our debates , I have already said that I not known no other professor of the St. FX or of elsewhere who gave inspired to his students many of respect and of admiration that John Stewart .
as the Senator Graham the has said , he is true that I not have not been to proprement speak a student of John Stewart , but as well of other , I have been his student here , to this place .
to the opportunity , in the framework of the debates , he averted my performance .
I not have never obtained better that a C of image in his Evaluations .
of any way , I not can explain by experience why he removes of a if high believe of the share of his students .
I think that you can be to little almost sure that he not wanted not the popularity in if pliant to the requirements of the culture adolescente , as the doing some professors .
to my notice , he is more likely that he earned their respect because that he the comply him - even for their intellect and their judgment and because that he drawing of the criteria of excellence high - not of the criteria inatteignables , but of the criteria high - and that he knew learn the better of his students .
you find of the men and of the women who , well of the years more later , say that the point grand of their life of student has been the fact of have could c?toyer John Stewart .
you me has said that a sure number of between them if are introduced he there has few weeks to the St. FX for participate to a planning particular and to a tribute to their former professor .
I am sure that he has should be very moved of their presence and of their evidence of respect and of believe .
following a university who if is fray? a path in policy .
I like say few words on the election of 1962 .
however , this was a great victory pourJohn Stewart .
he has ramen? the party of very far , account held of the peerage state in which the candidate precedent , Al Graham , the had left .
the Senator Graham :
I had avoided that .
the Senator Murray :
the Senator Stewart is can - be a university who has manfully in policy , but he not has never shown the d?tachement proverbial of the academic to the regard of the events political .
all of first , nothing of this who is came in his riding or to his about not him has never escaped .
few years after the then where we mangions together all the midis to Antigonish , I was here to payments of Deputy defeated in the government Diefenbaker when he is came as member newly elected of Antigonish - Guysborough .
I me recall of a series of t?l?grammes separatists that I have received in report with a some parcelle of ground that the government had achet?e or not had not achet?e in the city of Antigonish for there build a new building federal .
no grief not was thought , particularly when the Conservatives were to the power .
this is a expert of the questions Constitutional and proc?duri?res and he has been chairman of our Committee of the Affairs foreign , but this whose I me remind the better of the years that I have fellow to receive the questions , this are all these concerns that had the Senator Stewart for the fisheries in Nova - Nova , for the impact on the Nova - Nova of the policy federal in Equity of highways , for the construction of a bridge Work to the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward or for the impact of the GST on all the Canadians .
can - you say that this university is drove of the spirit of party ?
I not have that a something to say .
as he the has often reiterated , we fundamentally a sport of team , and to this chapter , I must splendours that he excels .
the Senator Graham has spoke of the two books that the Senator Stewart has published on the philosopher Scotians David Hume , the Prime met entitled :
report Moral The Political Philosophy of David Hume , and the second Opinion The Reform respectively Hume' St. Political Philosophy .
honourable senators , I not have not read these books .
in 1761 , the church Catholic has opportunity all the books of Hume to the spoken and I suppose therefore , by extension , that the books writing on him by John Stewart have suffering the even fate .
you not needy be too prudent in of the case of this kind .
I consider that the ban of read the books written by David Hume or to his about is the a of the measures the least constant cut by the church Catholic .
far of duty be to the spoken of anyone , he m?riterait of be read by all the parliamentarians - but particularly those of the other place .
all the world knows that our colleagues of the other place not are not of great readers and that their cast of attention not exceeds not extend of the oiseau - wagging , but I the encourage to read the chapter 1 .
they there liquidity finally a description you not can more limpide of the House of the Commons - and of the Parliament all around , even if the professor Stewart not refers not wording the Senate .
they there 231 , as I the have said the other day in a other context , to if do remind their prerogatives , and lireJohn Stewart their limited great well to this regard .
with the departure of the Senator Stewart , we lose a of our best parliamentarians and the Nova - Nova , a representative sanity carefully and strong department .
if the government means him offer a ride and a office in the parages , I not there see not of disadvantage .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Murray :
after all , if the Senator Grafstein can if allow of described the former Senator MacEachen of to treasury national to , we can to fair payments see in the Senator Stewart a valuable resources not registration .
hence why , Your Hon. , the time came , I happy all prepared to present a proposal , seconded by the Senator Staunton - Lynch , who in has had the idea , order that the office served stood by the former Senator MacEachen be developed to perp?tuit? to the clause of the former Senator Stewart .
of the Senators :
hear !
his Hon. the Speaker :
must - I understand , hon. Senator Murray , that you proposez a motion ?
the Senator Murray :
with the leave of the Senate .
his Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I me find me - even in a Chair who me authority the honour of be the next orator .
this is a real honour .
this is for me a great happy of pay tribute to my colleague , the hon. Senator Stewart .
all in listening carefully the other speakers , he me is came to the spirit that the Senator Stewart has a side fantasque and humourous that he we has revealed to the dinner that we have organized in his honour when , by example , he has spoke of the day where he was joined in the Room of the Senate and had treaty the Senator Murray of tyran and the Speaker of usurpateur - by mistake , of after this that I the have heard say .
my remember the more sir of the Senator Stewart not just not of here , but rather of my only visit to Antigonish , where I was went attend to the conference MacEachen .
the Senator Stewart has had the kindness of me explain the importance that had the university where he had unequal , running Francis Xavier , and the mystery that constituency for me all these people who circulaient in Authorize to the doigt a chevali?re orn?e of a X , of the people who were of the associated to my cabinet of lawyers and that I had the Appendix of see across in my city , Calgary .
I know now of where they come .
I in am came to Terms their training and the fortunate who seems the follow since their exit St. Francis Xavier .
with of the professors of the trempe of the Senator Stewart , the quality of their training was something some .
the Senator Stewart has played a role remarkable here .
I like me also mention a of his books .
I not have not read Hume and , as the Senator Murray , I not have not the intention of the do , but not for the same reasons rigides for expelling the Senator Murray if refuses to read Hume .
the following :
the leaders of the parties to the House in are the heroes overlooked .
each of them must have a double loyalty : others his party and others the House .
good number of their ennuis come of the fact that their colleagues not if soucient not of the House or if there interested many too .
sometimes , they not boat not account of the House .
sometimes also they him overwhelmingly too of importance , of sort that all the concessions made to their counterparts for in facilitate the business pressing for of Sternly capitulations .
listen well , Senator Boudreau .
he add :
little important the conflict who Jr. between ambitions and opinions , the leaders of the House must ensure the operating of the system .
I in am became extremely aware , then that I not the was not to my arrived to the Senate .
this who is all to his honour , in as that university and politician , the Senator Stewart we has all prodigu? this education .
if only we were all prepared to the hear !
I you hear now , Senator Stewart .
all to the long of his mandate , the Senator Stewart has been a great Leader .
he has including sat with distinction to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
my experience in this field met limited , I can now have a idea of the difficulty of this task .
on the Hill of the Parliament , the Senator Stewart has a sure number of students , and I me hasten of add , honourable senators , that we are all of the students of John Stewart .
we the respect as professor because , to of many opportunities , we have learned of him and have followed his Aristotle to the during of our deliberations .
Senator Stewart , I believe that the more great tribute that this House can pay to a Senator , this is of him express his deep respect .
your contribution we miss ; however , you we let to all a legs asset and particularly of the principles very important for we guide .
that your retirement be full of new experiences , of beautiful books to read and to write , and of spirit to ably .
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. Roch Bolduc :
honourable senators , I have met John Stewart for the first time to the fall 1988 , when I have been appointed to the Senate .
during five years , we have sat together to the Committee of the Finance national and during the 11 past years , we have all two fact part of the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
we have of other things in common : of the studies higher to the States - United , a position of university , a taste particular for the philosophical policy , and this that I appellerais a some vocation for the service public - John Stewart , in as that member and Senator , and me , as official and Senator .
of other things we bonds .
John is a English of origin bagpipe ; he is protestant , cold others the States - United all in met a Liberal Algonquin of Harvard , and a writer distinguished .
I am French , Canadian French , Catholic , Conservative as the people of cardiology , friend of the States - United and former manager .
I must say however that , to the over of the years , we have shared of many tasks whose the analysis by program of the Estimates governmental , the study of the various aspects of the policy foreign of the Canada , and more particularly of his policy commercial in reason of the importance increased that has took the trade international to the during of the last decade .
course , as the has said the Senator Murray , John was against the Agreement of free - Exchange .
I suppose that this was because that he knowing then part of the Opposition and that he wanted defend this Position knowing that we d?fendrions the Position shrinking and that , in last analysis , this would the Canadians who trigger .
that could also be because that he amorphous that the ALE not was not also good for we that the Covenant of the automobile , who just of be denounced by the Organization World of the trade .
what that he in be , this was the opportunity of sharpest debates to the Senate , comparable to extend on the GST , but many more civilized that this last , I must the say .
to the Committee of the Finance national , we have covered of many subjects , in particular the various aspects of the policy administrative government .
our study of the recommendation Royal me has left of the memories imp?rissables .
our savant colleague , John Stewart , expert of the procedure Parliamentary , on which he has released a book in 1997 , careful a malin happy to watch of many witnesses in their last retranchements with his arguties legal .
they me teamwork thinking to the quibbling m?taphysiques of the 16 century between the j?suites and the thomistes , between other , Suarez .
to comments of philosophical , I must you attention , honourable senators , that not only our colleague is Dr. in right public and in studies governmental , but that he has also a control in Science policy and that he is a expert internationalement recognized of David Hume .
he has released two books on the writing of Hume .
I can you say that , after have read the biography of Hume , I have took conscience of many similarities between John and this great author Scotians : the love of the books , the frugal , the attrait of the psyche , a spirit sceptique but widest .
I me say sometimes that he is the Montesquieu of the Nova - Nova .
his heroes was a good friend of Balzile Smith , well that I not think not that John gave in also high believe that me .
back - in to David Hume .
he if is of a publication semestrielle that the sector of the philosophical university feel greatly .
in this group auguste of brilliant academic , I must you say that our colleague is considered as a great priest .
in November 1995 , we have had right to a analysis criticism of his second book on Hume .
John has defended with gracefully his argument transpired that Hume be the precursor of the tradition Liberal British and not of the tradition conservatrice .
the a of his criticism , Douglas Plain , has wrote :
John B . Stewart if is revealed be a time of more a parallels of the foundation Hume seriously , calculated and sensitive .
I me incline before a such variety of talents or commonality who allows to our Senator of move of the theory policy to the practice policy .
after all , he has been elected three time and therefore , he not is not simply a excellent spirit notional , but a historian department of the last centuries of the life policy British .
in as that chairman of the Committee of the Affairs foreign , he has known job lead our studies of questions important who have given held to of many proposals appropriate , according we , for this who is of guide the direction international of our country .
our last report on the impact of the Union European on the Canada , who knowing following to extend that we had product he there has few years , is a excellent example of that .
the next report that he has led to payments of chairman , on the NATO and the Canada , should also duties of pride all the senators opposite - to - opposite of the work of this Committee .
during any his career policy , John has fought for the interests legitimate of the people of the Maritimes .
I hope that he will we leave for go live a nice retirement pleased , but I am sure that he not has not still wrote his last book .
I him wish a life prosperous through to his rights of author , all as his famous predecessor British .
the hon. Marie - P .
Poulin :
honourable senators , to the during of the 132 years who if are period since the Confederation , of many eminent Canadians have sat in this chamber .
their knowledge , their wisdom , their perception and their befall have contributed widely to the good conduct of the Affairs of our country .
we know that we have among we a Canadian extremely respected , the Senator John B . Stewart , who can in any legitimacy if join to the panth?on of these great g?ants of the Senate that are the honourable Eugene Forsey , Raoul Dandurand , Dixon McQueen Fergusson , ConAgra Wilson , Chubby Power , Duff Duff and Arthur Meighen .
they have all brought a contribution all to fact remarkable , as all historian or observer of the Senate able in testify .
the contribution of the Senator Stewart since his appointment to the Senate he there has 15 years will been his spirit p?n?trant and his extensive knowledge , who him discuss spent a reputation uncommon among his colleagues .
this is a reputation who has d?bord? the managers of this chamber for if r?pandre until in the centres of decision of the country where his views on the Affairs foreign , the Banking , the trade and the fisheries have of the negative .
and as the know all those who have been incurred in a debate with him , his very great eloquence is a weapon beware .
the Senator Stewart not is plans brought to the overstating or to the grandiloquence .
this is a learned , a man dignified and sophisticated , a to honest man to as you said already .
his views are always ?quilibr?es , a quality of uniqueness who is very appr?ci?e home extend who give his opinion , and I have had the privilege of the see often .
this politician , professor and writer has fact honour to our institution .
this is a loss for we and for the country that the time be came for him of leave the Senate .
his ideas and his action we miss enormous , therefore that his good advice .
I wish to our friend all this that he there has of better in this new step of his life .
the hon. Norman K . Atkins :
the week next , we retirees tribute to the Senator Derek Lewis , also of the Canada Atlantic .
even if we have therefore the opportunity of do argue their accomplishments , as to the Senate that elsewhere , we are tristes to the idea that all the two quitteront the Senate in the next days .
this is a loss real , as for we who remain that for the Senate in as that institution Parliamentary .
in participant to the committees and to the business of the Senate , these two senators have always succeeded to met the lately of the debate , in Dolly to the questions to the study the perception and the wisdom learning to the long of their careers different .
we him offering our best wishes for his retirement .
further to the Senator John Stewart , who has represented to the House of the Commons the riding of Antigonish - Guysborough , in Nova - Nova , he is the only capita of the Nova - Nova who knows where if find Cook' St. Cove , where is born my great - father .
this is a banlieue of Guysborough .
the Senator Stewart is a university , a author and a expert of the parliamentary .
before my arrived to the Senate , I knew the Senator Stewart only of reputation , by his business to the House of the Commons and by those who dictatorial his business academic .
but , when I am became member of the Committee Senate of the Affairs foreign , I have been capacity of admiration before his knowledge and his accuracy in as that chairman of the Committee .
those who have trend to demean our institutions governmental number interest to study the work of the Senator Stewart as here that to the other place .
he has always considered as very important the role of the Parliament in the society Canadian , all as he completely for essential the process parliamentarians , the role of a Opposition raisonn?e and the held of good debates .
and this was the case little important who had the speak if the comments that he entendait were endowment .
that met said , he not has never d?rog? to the discipline of party , this who fact of him a good Liberal .
in addition , he not has almost never missed a sitting since his appointment .
the Senator Stewart careful his responsibilities very to the seriously .
this will difficult of not more the see in opposite of me and of complying his looks during that of the points , good and bad , will raised in this Room .
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , today today , we say Adieu to the a of the parliamentarians the more eminent and the more dedicated that I mandatory had the honour of know since 37 years .
as he has been agreed today today , the Senate perdra the a of his members the more outstanding when the Senator John Stewart takes his retirement tomorrow .
for we , of this side - side of the chamber , he is well almost of be irrempla?able .
the Senator Stewart has spent his life to the learning , to the education and to the service public in his province , the Nova - Nova , and including to the St. Francis Xavier , in his nice city native of Antigonish .
he has been a partisan and the conscience of the Party Liberal of the Nova - Nova and of the Party Liberal of the Canada .
he is joined in policy federal in 1962 in quality of member Liberal of Antigonish - Guysborough , position that he has served during three mandates .
this is during this period - I was then a young journalist Parliamentary - that I the have known .
the Senator Stewart we has fact advantage of his expertise with wisdom and judgment .
I know that the senators of this side - side if ennuieront seriously of his advice .
this could well be a day momentous for the Senator Stewart .
the Senator Murray him has offered a position perp?tuel .
however , I the invite to reflect seriously to this proposal because that he could probably do a small fortune in lone drafts in procedure Parliamentary .
the leadership whose he has fact evidence to the Committee of the Affairs foreign has been to cool to and to achievement to , as diverting the young .
the Senator Stewart has had a great influence on many of between we .
I have lived a time coast after the election of 1988 , when the Senator Stewart me has asked if I wanted do part of the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
I have then thought that I had really succeeded .
he me is then wished that I not devais serve that during the break of the illiteracy for that we can meet our commitment of adopt the Agreement of free - Exchange before the 1 January 1989 , to the case where our opposite - to - opposite d?clencheraient of the election .
what that he in be , this period has been rich and declines .
I in Access a excellent remember .
a time this chapter concluded , I am recanted to my duties normal to the Senate .
he me rest still to be called as member of this Committee mythique that is the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
I Access hope of there reach .
I like me stop a moment to this that the Senator Stewart has accomplished to the within of this Committee .
to the during of a decade agit?e by of the regroupements commercial international changeants , by of the perturbations financial and trade victimized in different regions of the world and having of the impact to the Canada and by a increase unfortunately too due of the number of the conflict military buzz , the Senator Stewart has led the Committee in of the studies offended and depth who have served to the extinction and to the leaders political of the Canada and of elsewhere , when they have had the intellect of read the reports or if in are given the worthy .
he not fact no doubt that John Stewart if is deep personally and with energy to define a Position realistic before our concern continuing for the peace in the context present who , as he the has said in a of his first interventions to the Senate , underlies sometimes to we lasser and to we accepting of continue of we fight for our because .
then that he spoke in favour of the creation of the Institute Canadian for the peace and the security international , in June 1984 , he we has exhort?s to to concerning the loons of the toeing and of the cynicism to .
he has d?cri? those who not parlaient that of the to problem of the peace to .
in him saying to the farewell today today , I like read a short committee of the speech that he has sir then , who encourage the Canadians to continue their efforts , each to his way , order of sauvegarder the optimism further to the peace World .
following this that said John Stewart the 28 June 1984 in this House :
as the said the old proverbe , he must have a resolute continuing for preserve the freedom .
we must return on our not , vigorous the same things , we tutorial we - same and tutorial the new generations to the throughout and to legislation that they nonetheless .
this repetition not must not we do believe that we not accomplissions nothing .
each day that the peace is unabated , we have accomplished someone something and we must adopt of new practices to legislation that the situation changing .
honourable senators , of the words of this kind doing part of the heritage that we suggests John Stewart , as the work that he has accomplished in this House , to the Parliament , for the Canada and for the world around .
I am personally sad of the see departure .
this is a good friend since very long .
his support effacing and constant , when I was Leader of the government to the Senate , was generous and well advised .
I not chair could accomplish this task without him .
I him wish a good health and of the happiness then that he account toward his province ador?e and toward Antigonish .
John , continued to speak and to write .
you me missed , to me , to my husband Mike and to Bessie .
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , this is a real privilege of take the speak to the opportunity of the departure to the retirement of the Senator Stewart .
those who have known the Senator Stewart many more long that me him have already realized tribute .
I like when even share some thoughts with my colleagues .
however , this is also the Senator Stewart who we has learned that the Parliament , this is more that of the speech ?loquents , this is the ability of communicate between we , of we ask of the questions , of in arrive to of the consensus and of find of the settlements of agreement .
I want the thank of me have unequal that he not there has not that my skills who rely , he there has also my ability of listen the other .
in the interest national , we must trying of find of the settlements of agreement .
since my arrived to the Senate , I have had the honour of sit to the Committee of the Affairs foreign and of in office the position of deputy - chairman .
let - me of paraphrasing , well pi?trement I me in apologize , this that the Senator Stewart has said to our Committee .
the most of the senators if arise to the Committee in transpired do argue their own point of view .
as he the said , of the senior of our own pi?destal , we want all dominer , with our courageous , our ideas , our philosophical and our objectives .
he responsibility to the chairman of find the average of meet all these elements disparates and of the convince of insist their efforts .
the Senator Stewart has certainly been in legislation of met this challenge to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
we not were not easy .
we had all of the opinions well opinionated .
the Senator Stewart we has certainly all given the possible of take the speak and of do argue our point of view .
he had the more nice quality that a chairman can have : he was fair - fair to the regard of all the members of the Committee , to the regard of the question and to the regard of the responsibilities of the Senate .
he has brought to the Committee this that I ch?ris the more , to know a allure independent .
approximately six months after my arrived here , then that I d?ployais any my eloquence on a point or on a other , a Senator has fully that you not if concern not because that I was a independent .
and that not if wanted not of the all a compliment .
each time that I have took the speak on a question , however , I have had the sense that the Senator Stewart we encouraged to more of raffinement and of reflection in the study of the questions whose we were before .
he had the don of we remind to the Order of time to other .
more often that words , he had the don of we takes to work a little better and a little more strong to the Committee .
as the Senator Bolduc the has said , our reports are ?loquents .
they have been internally by of the representatives of sectors important , sometimes by of the people of the government , sometimes by of the people of the governments of other country , and always by those who examining the questions of policy foreign .
in his work , the Senator Stewart if is always served of his charm and of his spirit and has always shown a desire sincere of do current the Affairs of the Senate .
more often that words , when the other poop the head , the Senator Stewart was able of keep the word and of act in gentleman .
the ability of keep his test and his civility and of ensure the good relative of the process are the more great gifts that you can have .
Senator Stewart , I you thank for all your years to the head of the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
I you thank for the things that you we have enseign?es .
of other senators have spoke enough length of your abilities for the education , then I not me fellow not on this point .
however , I sharing certainly their point of view .
I hope that the Senator Stewart continue of follow of almost our work .
I hope that he continue of if otherwise in the environment university and the environment policy and , particularly , I hope that he continue to watch the Canadians to achieve the levels of curiosity and of excellence that he has achieved in this chamber .
the hon. Peter A . Stollery :
honourable senators , this is a time that I have appr?hend? - the retirement of the Senator John Stewart .
I not knew not the Senator Stewart before his arrived to the Senate , in 1984 .
someone a has spoke of the respect of the Senator Stewart for the leaders parliamentarians .
I understand that .
we have forgotten that , since 1984 , we have of the governments dispelled .
the Senator Stewart has been elected by a low majority in three Parliaments where the government was minority .
I have also been elected in two Parliaments where the government was minority .
in this atmosphere , you appreciate the responsibility of the Leader Parliamentary .
I have always had a great admiration for the Senator MacEachen and , when I have fact the knowledge of the Senator Stewart , in 1984 , I am became a fervent admirer of this last .
he has brought a contribution enormous to the Committee of the Affairs foreign , whose I am member since that we have commonly our hearings on the Agreement of free - Exchange , in 1986 .
the Committee if is met very frequently , and the Senator Stewart in is became the chairman .
he is all simply impossible of explain to what point the Senator Stewart has had a impact on our Committee .
honourable senators , the Senator Stewart is a wonderful professor .
the people who the have known before me we the have said .
however , me who have fact the knowledge of the Senator Stewart here , to the Senate , I can now affirming that he is , of the least to my eyes , the more great professor that he me gave never been given of meet .
he we has unequal how deal the Affairs public .
he has of great fight and of great principles .
of more in more , to legislation that we vieillissons all , we we interrogeons on the fight and the principles .
when you meeting a human as the Senator Stewart , the experience is very stimulante .
he is can - be politologue , but he is also philosopher .
this not is not a accident if he affectionne all particularly David Hume .
he sharing the same values that him .
he has fact a contribution incommensurable to our Committee of the Affairs foreign , who has prepared of excellent reports under his Speaker .
our challenge introducing now to maintain this level of excellence .
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
this was the first time that I votais to of the election federal .
I not better not splendours for what party I have voted , but I think that the Senator Stewart me pardonnera of have voted for Louis Comeau , who was candidate of the Party Progressive - Conservative to the then .
in fact , I believe that the Senator Stewart me has pardonn? that in several opportunities .
my purpose not was not of record a election held he there has 31 years , but of do know that I chair well loved that we horses of a little more of time for dies the Committee Senate Standing of the fisheries for be in legislation of deal there the speech of uttered that we wanted contact to the Senator Stewart , because he in has been a member very active .
to the behalf of the members of the Committee of the fisheries , I the thank of the way whose he has contributed to the regulation of the issues complex on capably we have had to we dealt to the over of the years .
his magnificent capabilities of research , his knowledge depth and his know - do him have spent the respect of the members of the Committee , of the witnesses and of the industry .
when he if presented of the case eliminated , the Senator Stewart had the don of all streamline .
he was always prepared to we do share of his binge advice .
in my behalf staff and to the behalf of my colleagues , Senator Stewart , I wish to say that you we missed .
you have been for we all a very good professor .
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , for all these things who are honourable , fair and unaware , I like do pale the words who have been plebiscite today today to the place of the Senator John Stewart .
my seat of Chair , the Senator Watt , and me - even have been Connolly the even day , in January 1984 .
this is to this opportunity that I have met the Senator John Stewart .
you can say that in big , we are upon all in even time .
Senator Stewart , I have read of your books .
I have recently concluded your last book , extend on David Hume .
I must however splendours that the Senator Stewart me in has offered a copy for if do forgive of have touch during three years a other book that I him had join .
in me appearing his book , he me has said that he not me limited not pay of fees of gardiennage for the other .
the Senator Stewart has sat with me to different committees .
I me recall particularly of the then where he had replaced provisoirement a colleague to a Committee Special responsible of study the bill of bill C - 21 on the insurance - unemployment and where we had should we pay to Canso , in Nova - Nova .
he must say to the Senator Murray and to the senators Conservatives of in opposite that in 1989 , during of this travelling particular in this region particular , we had ralli? the opinion public and the media against this bill of bill .
honourable senators , the Scotians - Scotians John Stewart , of origin bagpipe , and the Senator Allan J . MacEachen , also Scotians - Scotians and of origin bagpipe , constituency to them two a presence with which he needed rely .
during of the campaign of obstruction research in 1990 in this chamber to the about of the tax on the products and services , they have fact weigh on the Senator Murray , Leader of the government , and a some other human of the Nova - Nova of origin bagpipe all the negative of the myriad that they constituency .
honourable senators , Edward Blake proceeded deposited of a great number for be the better of the lawyers to have sat to the Parliament Canadian , and Allan J . MacEachen , for be the better Parliamentary to have never served our country .
I like add that John Stewart has been recognize the more great learned and philosopher to have never served the Canada .
the uniqueness startling of his pots intellect , the lacked of his spirit , the knowledge that he had of the operating of the Parliament , of the principles and of the moral have licences to the Party Liberal of spanning this period very painful and sometimes black remember in the enough of the Opposition of 1984 to 1993 .
I like thank the Senator Stewart and him express of way po?tique the affection and the respect special that I have for him .
since you are Scotians - Scotians , Senator Stewart , the to nice lady of Canso to , as me has called a time the Senator MacEachen , you said : to Bon wind Captain . to
some of between we , honourable senators , have attended he there has few years to the conference MacEachen to the St. Francis Xavier , to Antigonish , and have had the opportunity of examine of almost a institution where have been trained the more great of this country .
I like for complete you read a or of the Bible whose this school has fact his motto .
she is abdomen of the ?p?tre to the Philippiens , chapter 4 , verset 8 :
to the rest , brothers , that all this who is true , all this who is hon. , all this who is fair , all this who is relinquish , all this who is kind , all this who deserves the approval , this who is vertueux and dignified of louange , be the subject of your thoughts .
Senator Stewart , I you wish a excellent retirement .
I forward with forward your next book on David Hume .
you quittez this place informed of our deep respect and of any our affection .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
I am came here he there has few weeks , having angry need of a mentor of the quality of the Senator Stewart .
he has been enough kind for me sponsor in this institution and the fact that he we leaving now , then that my education has to worthy began , remain always for me a deep regret .
I must you say that this not is not the first time that that me sometimes .
in 1962 , I am came to the St. Francis Xavier , to Antigonish , anxious of study the philosophical and the Science political and hoping without too there believe power become a student of John Stewart , the professor , a little as he there has few weeks .
unfortunately for me , little of time after my arrived to the university , he is party for met the challenge of the life policy and lead a career all to fact proceed .
to this time - there , I have lost the opportunity of follow the Aristotle of a petty .
honourable senators , I say that for a reason .
the Senator Stewart needy that , in the culture and the tradition ?cossaises , the pr?sages doing part of the beliefs .
this are of the things who annoncent the events to come .
my arrived to the St. Francis Xavier in 1962 has been the sign , for the Senator Stewart , of the beginning of a new and proceed career , unfortunately for me .
I am sure that my arrived to the Senate , he there has few weeks , pr?sage still a time a career new , Mentorship , important and proceed for him .
the hon. Catherine S . Callbeck :
honourable senators , I like me join to my colleagues for pay tribute to the hon. Senator John Stewart .
I wish to highlight that I sharing of all heart the feelings who have been if eloquently views by good number of our colleagues this after - afternoon .
I not add that few words .
the Senator John Stewart has of the links very strong with the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward .
his father is born in my province and a good part of his family there ahead always .
well that the Senator Stewart not there be not born him - even , he there has lived during five years and I the consider therefore as a resident of the Island .
the home Stewart of the path Keppoch , almost of Charlottetown , is now the ownership of the Dr. Colin McMillan , the brother of the hon. Tom McMillan , who has fact part of the cabinet of Brian Mulroney .
filter me - even of the region Atlantic of the Canada , I must say that I am very sad of see the Senator Stewart we leave .
his experience , his knowledge in of many areas and his commitment opposite to the Canada Atlantic we miss certainly many .
since my arrived to the Senate , he there has two years , I have often asked of the assistance and of the advice to the Senator Stewart .
I like the thank publicly today today for all this that he has fact for me .
as someone a the has underlined here this after - afternoon , the Senator Stewart has left his Gallery in this place and his presence and his interventions we miss enormous .
however , I am appropriate that he continue of work for the better - be of all the Canadians .
Senator Stewart , I you greetings my best wishes to the opportunity of your retirement .
the hon. L?once Mercier :
during of the reception , the other night , to the entry of the Senate , of the price fabuleux and very loved of elsewhere have been distributed .
my three colleagues , the senators Bacon , Ferretti Ferretti and Maheu , were weakened to my table .
they regardaient of time to other the Senator Stewart .
I their have asked : to that is - this that you have to the look ? to
they me have said : Mr. Mercier , the Senator Stewart has the air more young that you . to
I am therefore indispos? for in speak .
I believe , honourable senators , that he should change a little the way of do the things to the opportunity of the departure of a Senator .
you not have not said still the better of this man .
that not has not of sense , this that you telling .
I have a list of things that I will you say , of the truths , not of the inventions .
that fact three years that I the known .
for conclusion these tributes well m?rit?s today today , extend who we leaving could propose the adjournment for that all the world parte in even time .
that will be difficult of if retremper knew .
you lives the nostalgia .
you not has not the time of if say that a such has well spoke .
myriad the Gallery speech , you sometimes to the period of the questions .
not have - you not thought that if the Senator Stewart if in will , I Dad a vote ?
you should try of change our way of do for illustrious of manner important the departure of someone a .
when I Gerry the small school and that the inspecteur just we visit , he we funds break .
you could do the even something to the Senate .
this that we have to the Order of the day can expect to tomorrow or to Monday .
we not have nothing of terrible to hear today today , to least of me hear speak .
not oubliez not , Senator Stewart , of ask the adjournment .
I finish forget of the things tremendous who me fascinent .
you have forgotten , honourable senators , of say that this man has demonstrated the qualities necessary for be Senator , that he was a man gracious in his discussions and wise as chairman of Committee .
he has fact opposite to of many challenges with distinction and in 3.2 a great sense of the responsibilities .
as Senator , he has helped to establish the reputation fault of the Senate .
this man has dismantling the Senate as of other persons the marqueront in the future .
during the three years to the during prompted I have had the fortunate of work with him , I have could appreciate his qualities of honesty , of sincerity and of respect others the other .
in his life personal as in his life professional , he has known gain the respect and the admiration of his colleagues and of his knowledge .
the Senator Stewart lives of after the pr?cepte to Nobody getting not to resource this that you not like not that you your convey to your - even . to
hence a excellent rule of life .
finally , on a note personal , I like congratulate the Senator of a something whose of other could surely testify , to know his wonderful sense of the elegant , and I like that he me give the behalf of his tailleur before that he we leaving .
I know that I talking to the behalf of all in saying that the Senate of the Canada loses today today a excellent representative .
his perception and his wisdom we miss .
I you wish all the happiness possible .
the hon. John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , as the Senator Graham the has said , in 1962 , you me has guest to show to obtain the nomination Liberal in the riding federal of Antigonish - Guysborough .
I not knew not how respond .
the member Progressive - Conservative of the then , Perry O Grattan , who became more later a member of our hon. House , was very esteemed .
of more , to side of the equipment policy of Stanfield , the to Big Blue Machine to of the Ontario had the air rather d?pass?e .
my opportunity of gain were very low .
finally , I have yielding to the resist .
I have justified my decision in me saying that in as that professor of Science political , he was of my duty of me start in this campaign as if I groups a work of research university .
in end of account , I fus elected with a majority of 113 Senators .
I crunch a great part of my success - many more that these 113 Senators - to the work of Alasdair Graham .
I have then succeeded to me do elected in 1963 and in 1965 .
the Inquiry of the card election before the election of 1968 has had for effect of fusionner the major part of the riding of Antigonish - Guysborough with similar of Allan MacEachen .
I am therefore went chartered my fortunate in the riding of South West Scotia .
contrary to this who if recovered in the major part of the rest of the Canada , the Scotians - Scotians not attend not exercised by the Trudeaumanie during of these election .
still a time , we , the Liberal , Campaign the fight Mr. Stanfield , the Leader of the then of the Party Progressive - Conservative .
Allan MacEachen was the only Liberal elected in our province .
after my defeat in South West Scotia , I am business teaching to the St. Francis Xavier .
since this was for me a business independent , I better speak a little of the results of my research .
that have - I learned to the House of the Commons ?
of first , I have learned to know the people of Antigonish and of Guysborough and I have learned many of things to the about of their wharves , of their brise - lames and , particularly , of the simultaneously need of complete the business of dragage before the beginning of the season of the lobster earlier the spring .
second , I have learned what were the problems economic of the west of the Canada .
in January 1984 , I have been appointed to the Senate .
that have - I learned to the Senate ?
of first , I have prior a new respect for this House .
this not is not of the all a to club of the old to , as the argue some professors and some journalists .
second , I have learned that the Senate can do a work legislative strong important .
well of the members of the other place have little of time to spend to the bills of laws not controvers?s or admires technical , and this is understandable .
by therefore , the work of the Senate complete extend of the House of the Commons .
third , I have discovered the true value of the work of the committees .
the simple mention of the work of the committees me fact thinking to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign .
the senators underline often the importance of the reports of the committees ; however , I believe that we effectively too little of attention to some of these reports in this House .
by example , our report on the Canada in Asia - Pacific has drew many of attention to the pushing and well little to the Senate even .
I hope that our report on the Europe awaited a debate here .
the second report , on the Canada and the keeping of the peace , should be prepared of here few weeks .
in this case , I am course that you discuterez firmly of the constations and of the recommendations of the Committee .
in fact , I hope that the report of the Committee you provoquera enough for usually a such debate .
I wish to thank the Committee of the Banking and of the trade , and particularly the Senator Kirby , for all this that I have learned to payments of member of this Committee .
he in will of even for the Committee of the fisheries , chaired by the Senator Comeau .
he there in has many of other to thank .
I refers Irene Duy , who has been my Secretary during almost all my years to the Senate .
no task not was never too difficult for she .
I am happy of the see with his husband to the gallery this after - afternoon .
David girl has been my Qualifications .
his knowledge and his work hard me have been indispensable , particularly in the framework of the business of the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
David Raynor , who is professor to the University of Ottawa and a parent of our former colleague Heath Macquarrie , not has unceasingly of me remind all this that must to David Hume and Balzile Smith the political modern .
I wish to you say that I have began in the years 80 to write a book on Balzile Smith and that I have manfully to a second book on David Hume .
the links are if friends between these two authors !
Smith if is seconded directly on the bases jet?es by his predecessor little more old .
as you the has said without overstating in the before - comments of the report that I have presented yesterday , the Committee if is many fi? on the jurisdiction of Peter Berg , our Qualifications .
in the case of the report on the keeping of the peace , Wolfgang Koerner not has not physically his efforts in trying with many of success of if hold to the aware of all the new on the Kosovo , the Defence European , the NATO and the Nations Nations .
this reference , proposed by the Senator Staunton - Lynch , if is slaughterhouse be all to fact timely .
David Goetz we has drafting with his research outstanding on two questions : of a share , the intervention of the NATO in Yugoslavia without mandate of the Nations Nations and of other share , the role that the Parliament should play when the Canada involved to of the missions of keeping of the peace .
three table have served the Committee to the during of the past years .
I talking of Serge Pelletier , Line Gravel and Till Heyde .
here and to the abroad , they have been our Pilots cop and shrewd .
all the people who have worked around of the Senate have played a role very useful , that he if abhorrent of the Speaker , of the services of the Clerk , of the staff in General and , well heard , of our officers of security .
our colleague , the Senator Fairbairn , has spoke of Bessie .
Bessie is a chienne achievement and I please the Senator Fairbairn of the saluting of my share .
I want thank all those of between you who me have realized tribute here today today , therefore that all those who me have spoke in private .
you have greatly exaggeration my qualities and , by therefore , you have opportunity the below very senior for me to the future .
I you thank r?trospectivement and of advance for all your good words .
of the Senators :
hear !
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , before of move to the Affairs occasion of the day , I like advantage of this opportunity for you thank of the confidence that you me have granted in me competency to this position .
I am very honoured and very damaged .
with your cooperation and your cooperation , we going work in the better interest of the Senate .
I am some that we going all work together for the Senate in the respect and the dignity .
I wish good fortunate to the Senator Stewart .
' ' '
the Day national of the child
the hon. Catherine S . Callbeck :
in the last speech of the Throne , the government has took several commitments to the regard of the children of the Canada .
he there described seven initiatives specific who will of the priorities to the during of the five next years .
also important that ensure these seven initiatives , I me sense more particularly attir?e by the a of between they , similar who respect the support to the development of the children during the small boyhood .
to the number of the great experts in the field of the development of the young child found the Dr. Fraser Mustard .
his business of research have shown that a intervention signal is essential to the development of the child met given that she discredit the bases to the purposes of the learning , of the behaviour and of the health during all the graduate of life .
his business have given birth to various programs in the field of the development of the young child across to the Canada .
I wish to bringing today today to your attention a of these programs , be the to combatants Alliance Initiative to of the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward .
this initiative community has been agreed in June 1998 by a group of citizens involved .
she together of the groups and of the agencies Government and not Government who oeuvrent deposited of the young children and of their family .
you means if give a average of study the solutions possible and of if attack to the causes fundamental of the problems social eliminated who concerned the young children .
the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward discriminates by the through of this initiative a true role of Leader in the field .
a program precise realized possible through to the support of the to combatants Alliance Initiative to is entitled : to Meilleur departure . to
this is a program intensif of selection and of visit to home Use to offer of the support to the children , of the birth until to the age of three years .
after the birth of their child , the parents of the region if g offer the possible of participate volunteers to a process of assessment and of selection whose the implementation in implement incombera to of the nurses in health public .
the families who discuss right to the support to home will directed toward a officer of the program to Meilleur departure . to
this program intended between other things to improve the operating of the family and to promote a interaction parent - child positive therefore that a healthy growth during the boyhood .
the program will constant in June 2000 .
honourable senators , the children represent our future and this year , to the opportunity of the Day national of the child , each community should if give as objective of do in sort that the first years of the children ensure their best years .
if we want that the young Canadians if showing and perform of the accomplishments for them , for the other and for the future , we must ensure to this that the programs as those who are developed of the before by the to combatants Alliance Initiative to becoming a priority national .
Mr. . Irwin Cotler
congratulations to the opportunity of his election as member of the riding of Fusiliers - Royal
the hon. Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , I congratulate today today my friend and colleague newly elected , the professor Irwin Cotler , Leader confirmed whose the interventions and the comments if day in the tradition , the history and the heritage of former leaders of the riding of Fusiliers - Royal as Pierre Elliott Trudeau and John Humphrey .
the rights of the human , the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms , the conventions international on the rights of the human and the rule of the right resident the quality of life in a country democratic .
these questions fundamental , and well of other , limited a sense to the life of all the days and they characterize the activities of Irwin Cotler .
his behalf is known of all those who , to the Canada , boat firmly to preserve our society democratic and our rights basic .
he is clear that a sense inn? of justice is to the basic of his commitment to preserve these values .
as the has said to Position Presse Alan Dershowitz , professor to Harvard , in considering our new member of the Parliament :
he not if interest not to him .
he has travelled across in the world to his fees for defend of the men who , yesterday still , were in prison for their opinions .
those - side him must a little of their freedom :
Nelson Mandela in Africa of the South , Anatoli Scharansky in Israel , Andre? Sakharov in Russia , the Nobel of literature Wole Soyinka to the deflect , Jacobo Timmerman in America Latin and Muchtar Pakpahan in Asia .
he the has fact without never if interest to the money or to the publicity .
of after the words of Irwin Colter , his Prime professor and philosopher of right was his father , who him has always said that the court of the justice was the something the more important .
honourable senators , I believe that he has well control this philosophical .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
I regret of duty interrupt the hon. Senator Finestone , but his time of speak is expired .
let - you , honourable senators , to the hon. Senator of continue his speech ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Finestone :
I thank the honourable senators .
the professor Irwin Cotler has profoundly dismantling the world of the rights of the human .
he is now time that he convey advantage the Parliament of his sense of the equity , of his compassion and of his sollicitude for the constituents of Fusiliers - Royal and the citizens of the Canada and of the world .
there - above , honourable senators , I wish Mr. Cotler the welcome to the other place .
I know that he we occasionally ample Equity to reflection and favorisera the diversity of the opinions .
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
Banking and trade
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. Leo E . Kolber :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade , who door on the Estimates incurred by the Committee to the during of the first session of the Session Parliament .
( the text of the report found to the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
education post
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Special
the hon. M. DeWare :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee s?natroial Special of the education post , who door on the Estimates incurred by the Committee to the during of the first session of the Session Parliament .
( the text of the report found to the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
the adjournment
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate if adjourns today today , this be until to the Tuesday 23 November 99 , to 14 p.m. .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
leave granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Act on the divorce
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the hon. Anne C . Cools presented the bill of bill S - 12 , Act amend the Act on the divorce ( child to reminder ) .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Cools , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the sitting of the Tuesday 30 November 99 . )
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to allow the meaning Electronic
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I give notice , to the behalf of the Senator Kirby , that Tuesday next , the 23 November 99 , he carrying :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology be authorized to allow the meaning of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to clerical of the services
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I give notice , to the behalf of the Senator Michael Kirby that , Tuesday next , the 23 November 99 , he carrying :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , personnel , employees of office or other elements necessary for examine the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have been An .
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to examine the facts new regarding the Assisted and the assistance to the suicide
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Tuesday 23 November 99 , I move :
more particularly , that the Committee be authorized to examine :
the legislation in which have been implemented in implement the recommendations unanimous presented in the report ;
2 . Conformity evolution to the Canada of the different questions scrutinized in the report ;
3 . Conformity evolution to the abroad of the different questions scrutinized in the report .
that the Committee presented his report final to the more later 6 June 2000 .
Banking and trade
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to study the situation of the regime financial domestique and international
the hon. Leo E . Kolber :
honourable senators , I give notice that Tuesday next , the 23 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade be authorized to examine , order of in do report , the situation current of the regime financial domestique and international ;
that the documents and evidence collected to this about to the during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament and all other document Parliamentary and testimony relevant regarding obedience about ensure removed to this Committee ;
that the Committee be authorized to allow the meaning of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business ;
that notwithstanding the practices usual , the Committee be authorized to table a report interim on obedience about deposited of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be reputation have been tabled to the Senate ; and
that the Committee presented his report final to the more later 31 December 2000 .
privileges , Rules and procedure
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Lucie pin :
honourable senators , to the behalf of the hon. Senator Austin , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) has ) of the Rules , I move :
that the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure be authorized to sit to 16 p.m. 30 the duration , even if the Senate seat , of now to the end December 99 , order that the Committee can study the questions of privilege raised by the hon. Senator Andreychuk and the hon. Senator Kinsella , who have been d?f?r?es to the Committee ; and that the application of the subsection 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , you pleasure - he of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
languages official
Authorized to the Committee Joint Standing of sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I want present a request to the senators , relatively to the business of the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore is member of the Committee .
I presented therefore the motion next in his behalf .
- honourable senators , to the behalf of the Senator Losier - Losier , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 5 ( 1 ) has ) of the Rules , I move :
that the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official be authorized to sit during the sittings and the adjournments of the Senate and
that a message be Message to the House of the Commons for the in inform .
this Committee has traditionally sat even if the Senate sitting to the even time , and this motion is consistent to the use of the Senate .
in fact , the Committee has the intention of sit Tuesday next , before our sitting to this place .
that explain therefore why he must if office of this motion now .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Affairs foreign
the Sudan - Position participation of the society Talisman EnergyInc. - Position response to the criticism of the community international
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
I am satisfied that all the world knows the parabole of the poutre and of the paille .
the Canada if is fact the advocate of the well - be and of the security of the people across in the world .
the Minister of the Affairs External , Mr. Axworthy , is speedy to criticize the country foreign who not trap not the rights of the persons .
yesterday , however , the Naturalization of state of the States - United has reversed the roles and has reducing criticized the Canada because that he continues of nothing with the Sudan by the through of the business oil Talisman EnergyInc. , of Calgary .
the Americans have also accused the government Liberal of have reversed to to his approach positive of the policy foreign in to disassociate the eyes to on the atrocities avid by the regime of Khartoum to .
the Naturalization of state states that the activities of Talisman in the ways of Oil of the Sudan are facilit?es by the use of to sorties , of helicopters armed and of print of Turkey against of the civilians not armed to by the government of Khartoum .
the Americans concerned that the investment of Talisman in the sector p?trolier of the Sudan encouragent the regime fondamentaliste of Khartoum to continue the War civil in the south of the country .
until to now , the government of the Canada not has not still ordered to Talisman of if withdraw of the Sudan and not has not imposed of sanctions to this country in despite of the pressure orchestrated since a year on the Minister Canadian of the Affairs foreign by of the NGOs Canadian and international of even that by the Coalition inter - churches on the Africa .
in fact , Mr. Axworthy just all fair of accept of send a mission of inquiry to the Sudan .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , this question has been scope to the attention of the government of the Canada , and more specifically of the Minister department .
she is taken very to the seriously .
the reports setting a link between the business privacy Canadian clause by the Senator and of the abuses pr?sum?es of the rights of the human and of the right international create of serious concerns .
as the hon. Senator the has underlined , the Minister of the Affairs foreign has sent a commission Canadian independent to the Sudan for check if he there has of the links between the abuses of the rights of the human and the business in because .
a report him will presented and he takes the measures who if impose after in have took knowledge .
the Sudan - Position participation of the society Talisman EnergyInc. - Position policy of the government on the Opposition between the plateforme of the security human and the interests of the investors
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the question that the you must if ask in the actions , this is similar of know if this business privacy Canadian impropriety the rights of the human and the right international .
if this is the case , the government of the Canada could then consider of the sanctions economic and trade relatively to this activity .
as in witnessing the measures that he has already taken , he is clear that the Minister is very nervous and that he Glenney handcuff soon that he will in labour the report of this commission independent .
the trade international
the Agreement of free - Exchange North - American - Conformity proceedings basically by a society Processors in consequential of the loss of a contract of Purchase of water in vrac - Position Position of the government
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I have a question to ask to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
I believe know that a small business Processors called Sunbelt has basically a proceedings in damage - interests of approximately 10,5 billion of $ against the government federal for the cancellation of a contract by the government of the British - British in view of the Purchase of water in vrac .
Sunbelt based his action on the provisions of the NAFTA regarding the rights of the investors and the treatment national - this is - to - say the rights tremendous of the investors - and request of the damage - interests not only for the profits perdus , but also for the lack to gain .
course , this action not will not heard by a court plain , but by a group of expert responsible of the regulation of the differences .
account held of a decision recent of a group of expert of the NAFTA in a case origins a society American to the government mexicain and regarding also the rights tremendous of the investors , the government Canadian is - he prepared to if defend until to the across against this action of Sunbelt ?
I valid this question because that , in the unwitting case of the MMT , the government has capitul? before Ethyl Corporation and agreed of him confidence 20 million of $ .
the because not has never been heard and the government has conc?d? that Ethyl Corporation had right to this compensation .
can - you we say if the government is prepared to go until to the across in this case , account held of this precedent ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , clearly , the fact that this question be Before to a group Special of regulation of the differences seems uncontroversial a some controversy .
I in speak to the Minister for know where in are the things .
I remind that if the case is in decision before a court or a group Special of regulation of the differences , the response risk of be very brief .
the Senator Spivak :
honourable senators , this case is before a group responsible of the regulation of the differences in Equity of trade international .
he not if is not of hearings public and the procedure not is not transparent .
the people to the Canada not know nothing of this who if proceeded .
this is a case of a great interest for the public .
this is why I valid the question here .
the former Minister of the Trade international , Sergio Marchi , has all fact for pay the process of regulation of the differences more transparent .
he is important that the Canadians managing if , in this case , the rights of the investors U.S. pressing before those of the Canadians and if the government will be forced of confidence of the damage - interests not only for the profits perdus , but also for the lack to gain .
this is a case extremely important .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the question fundamental , this is the Position of the government to the regard of the export of the water in major amount .
I suppose that the hon. Senator envisaged fully this Position , to know that this country not should not flair the water in major amount .
we have fact of great progress in this field and I am course that the hon. Senator in agree .
this case particular whose talking the Senator Spivak can be the a of the results of this progress .
however , I know if he would wise to this stage - side of discuss in detail of the strategy of the government and of the measures that he could take relatively to a case particular in which a business American written of huge are .
the policy of the government regarding the Defence against of the proceedings class by of the companies
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , if this is therefore and if the Leader not can d?voiler of details , he is important of know if , in this case - side , the government is prepared to follow the regulation of the differences .
this Intelligence can certainly be realized public .
I hope that the government not Technicolor not to the secrecy with the society , as he the has fact in the case of the MMT .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I am sure that the government of the Canada will all to fact prepared to protect our interests on the notice of his counsel .
I know what measures specific he will take .
he not is not indicated of do know his Position for the moment .
he is clear that , in this who respect the question of principle , the government has adopted a Position firm to the regard of the export of water in major amount .
the government federal has obtained the cooperation of the provinces to this regard .
we are devote to a policy national that we d?fendrons by all the means documentation .
the government committed well the do .
the business of the s?nat
Order to the Rules
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I rise for guarantee a some certainty in our procedures .
the subsection 56 ( 3 ) of the Rules of the Senate door on the question of the notice to give and said follows :
the notice draws here can be tabled by a Senator to the behalf of a other Senator ...
the Senator Hays has given notice of a motion to the behalf of the Speaker pro tempore .
the subsection 56 ( 3 ) specific that a Senator can act to the behalf of a other Senator absent , with the leave of this last .
the subsection 55 ( 3 ) provides that when the Speaker wish participate to the debate , he must leave the Chair and invite a other Senator to chairman the sitting .
the Senator who is also the Speaker can then participate fully to the debate as all other Senator .
I think that the even something if applies to the Speaker pro tempore .
for deal this case properly , he would onerous that her the Speaker pro tempore leaving his Chair and that a other Senator the nat , pursuant to this that provides the subsection 56 ( 3 ) and to the logical of the interventions such that she is aired in the section 55 of the Rules .
we must meet this that has ruled the Speaker yesterday .
I not contesterai not the validity of the procedure followed , but to the future , he should can - be if conform to the Rules .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank the Leader Deputy of the Opposition of have raised the question .
I must recognize that I not have not asked the leave of propose the motion pursuant to the Rules but , to the listen , I conclude that he has reason if I have proposed the motion to the behalf of the Speaker pro tempore .
I have tried of explain the reason for which I have presented the motion , to know that she knowing following to a request of the Speaker pro tempore , this who not would can - be not should be mentioned .
I better examine the account realized for see this that I have said exactly .
what that he in be , my intention was of ask the leave and of propose the motion me - even .
I not am not member of the Committee Joint and I have indeed mentioned the Speaker pro tempore , who in is member .
I believe know that the first meeting will held Tuesday next , of where this initiative .
I before perfectly the comments of the Senator Kinsella and I not certainly not of me in remind to the future .
I the thank of not not rise of objection or of not not refuse the leave , this who facilitera course the work of the Committee .
Order OF orders
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Kirby , seconded by the hon. Senator Lewis , seconded to the second Reading of the bill of bill C - 6 , Act designed to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of means electronic for communicate or registering of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the Instruments regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws .
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , the trade Electronic is a question who me interest to the more senior point .
I am therefore very happy of take share to the debate on the bill of bill C - 6 , Act on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic .
this initiative intended to protect the uniqueness private of the information personal collected , used or releases by some agencies Canadian in the framework of activities trade .
she states also of the criteria for a signing Electronic s?curis?e to the purposes of the transactions electronic treaties with the government and specific how the courts able authentifier the documents electronic admitted in evidence .
the Canada has a need pressing of this bill for ensure the success of his participation to the economy World of the know , a economy in full encouraged who , to the say of the expert in the Equity , must detonated in least of a year .
the toeing , as the said the Senator Murray , is that the bill of bill C - 6 not is not to the live .
his wording underlies to plant the confusion in the spirit and includes of very serious flaws .
he not is not sure that he can protect effectively the life privacy of the Canadians all in oriented the success of their participation to the trade Electronic international .
this is there a uncertainty whose the Canada not has not the means if he account maintain his advantage in Equity of competition in the economy World .
the bill of bill C - 6 is the implement of a government whose the temporisation the makes today today to develop to any memories of the Instruments of bill for protect the Canadians in the context of the expansion next of the trade Electronic .
the government has left tra?ner the things and must to present catch his two major partners commercial , the States - United and the Union European , who if are already outfitted of the instruments suffer necessary in Equity of trade Electronic and of protection of the life privacy .
we know all that you declare that the trade Electronic will change the manner whose the Canada fear the Affairs .
our country is a Leader world in Equity of Technology of the information .
however , the statistics 18.7 that the businesses of the country seem hesitate to use this powerful drives economic that is the trade Electronic .
of after a study research by Angus Reid , to the spring last , the businesses Canadian have been lentes to exploit the opportunities of the trade Electronic , well that 12,9 million of Canadians ensure cool . Conformity inquiry
evidence that , well that 90 per of the buyers in line Canadian dollar onto their sites , only 38p. per adequacy really of the transactions in line with of the companies Canadian .
that we brings to we ask what are the companies who immunities profit of the power of Purchase of the 62p. per of buyers in line Canadian group and in what country they if find .
contrary to their counterparts Canadian , the businesses U.S. have known go the desirability of the revolution of the trade Electronic .
the small companies sp?cialis?es and the g?ants of the industry such that Procter & Gamble , by example , factories of the initiatives trade important who are presided to use the Technology of the trade Electronic for optimiser the services proposed to the consumers .
compared , the businesses Canadian are very in behind by report to the businesses U.S. in this field .
this imbalance could give to the States - United , our Main partner commercial and competition economic , the monopoly of the trade Electronic when this last if functions really to the Canada .
we conscious of losing of huge income to the profit of our competitors U.S. in reason of the consuming of the reaction of the sector private and of the government .
the bill of bill C - 6 , in his form current , not will that exacerbate the situation and I will explain why .
this bill of bill CRTC of way excessive the activities legitimate of the small and sized businesses and establishes a new framework regulatory clubs , without that you gave realized of study of the impact of the costs .
he suggests also pr?sager a new series of legends federal - provincial , because the governments of the Quebec and of the Ontario if there opposed .
a other problem is Related to the fact that the bill of bill C - 6 if applies to of the agencies commercial , but you not knows too if he if applies to of the agencies without purpose profit or to of the professions as those of the right and of the medicine .
by example , you not knows not specifically if this legislation legislative could if apply to the issues of a doctor .
this not are there that few - concerns of the reasons for expelling the bill of bill C - 6 , if he is adopted in his Presented current , could entraver seriously the initiatives of the businesses Canadian in Equity of trade Electronic .
if this bill of bill commit to limit the encouraged of the trade Electronic in the sector private to the Canada , he is possible that he unacceptably to of the businesses foreign of if give a important advantage competitive home we .
the nature even of the trade Electronic allows to of the businesses foreign of relentless to our regulations federal and provincial all in conservant the ability of learn party of transactions financial with of the clients Canadian .
this situation could have of the effects devastating on the sector private , the economy and , in across of bobsleds , the consumers of the Canada .
the logical of the Senator Murray me has satisfied that the bill of bill C - 6 1 guarantee to two bills of bill in a .
the cause part 1 of this bill of bill , who protects the information personal collected in the framework of all type of activity commercial 1 to a principle or to a purpose .
the parties 2 to 5 have relates to the validation of the documents and process electronic in under of the Act on the evidence to the Canada , of the Act on the Instruments regulatory and of the Act on the review of the laws and are ax?es on a all other principle .
according me , affected in two the bill of bill C - 6 help the honourable senators and the Committee in the study of the document and , this doing , their step of if delivering to a review distinct and in depth of the two themes and principles that the you groups in this bill of bill .
the parties 2 to 5 have been examined quickly and almost studiously to the House of the Commons in reason of the debate engagement in response to the part 1 .
the Senate has now the opportunity of if delivering to a analysis careful of the applicability of these sections innovative proposed who features to the implementation in place of the trade Electronic to the country and of conferring a status legal clear to some documents electronic .
he is important that the Committee gave the opportunity of study carefully these sections .
this legislation legislative if fact expect since long and must be agreed of any emergency .
in this who respect the part 1 , all the aspects of the provisions of the bill of bill regarding the protection of the life privacy must be analyzed in depth .
the Committee not should not feel that you the press of commissioned his study , little important the speed with which the government can add that the bill of bill franchisse the step of the Senate .
the protection of the life privacy is a right basic of all the Canadians and a legislation legislative if imposes certainly in this field .
to the during of the last session of the Parliament , the Committee Standing of the industry of the House of the Commons has length examined the bill of bill C - 54 , the predecessor of extend - side .
he has heard the evidence of a great number of citizens , of expert and of agencies concerned , who have spoke of the importance of we stop of a bill strong and effective for protect the information personal and for promote the trade Electronic to the Canada .
among these groups if twenty of the representatives of the Association medical Canadian , who if are contrary to the bill of bill because that he creating to regulate the use and the communication of information to of the purposes trade and that he walked of have of the consequences negative for the care of health and the system of health .
recently , of other associations in care of the health and professionals of the health have phoned , wrote , and advocates of the messages by mail Electronic and by monitored to my office for express their concerns to the about of the bill of bill C - 6 .
the representatives of the Association dental Canadian me have informed that this bill of bill :
they have asked that the Senate ruined for clarify and strengthen the provisions of the bill of bill who identification on the information personal in Equity of health .
the Dr. David Zitner , steering of the technology medical to my former alma mater , the University Dalhousie , to Halifax , has release with me for me maintain wording of this aspect .
he has said :
to the Canada , the tradition means that you using of the information personal for the well public ( with of the mechanisms documentation for protect the life privacy and ensure the confidentiality ) .
the activities of census constitute a example where of the people can be speculate of provide of the information personal in the interest public .
the Dr. Zitner believes vital that a bill appropriate convey in sort that the agencies of the health , the governments and the instituts of research carry use the information collected for if delivering to of the activities of research in health and of improvement of the quality of the care , in significant of mechanisms documentation for ensure the protection , the security and the confidentiality of these information personal .
that means that the agencies of research and the institutions of health could use a bloc of information and write of the reports in consequential .
the Association of the Society Canadian is also pr?occup?e by the bill of bill C - 6 .
in his Presented to the Committee of the industry of the House of the Commons , she has said that the part 1 omissions three major problems .
first , the structure of the part 1 is unusual in right Canadian and not give not really of good results .
the standard has volunteers been designed as a series of lines guidelines that a organization must put in application and not as a Code juridiquement executing who creates of the rights and of the devoirs precise .
second , the bec has seen a net possible for that the role and the responsibilities of the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy duplication some difficulties on the plan of the procedure .
for reach to the balance wanted between the rights of the human and the development of the trade Electronic , the government must ensure to this that the authority public responsible of the enforcement of the part 1 gave all the resources necessary for do the work effectively .
by elsewhere , for ensure the protection of the life privacy of the persons he not must not use of the means who Farmers the right of the organizations and of their employees to the confidentiality because this would there a use abusive of his own rights proc?duraux and the bill appear unfair .
the Committee Senate has therefore many of work rectificatif to do for clarify this awful .
third , the Association of the Society has said that the bill of bill sick of the questions dealing the Constitution , for this who is of the Division of the powers between the governments federal and provincial , and the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms .
the bill of bill is so ambigu that the Society Canadian not could say categorically if the government federal r?ussirait to exercise his powers if the legislation Year in force .
to the across of the account , the association doutait that the bill of bill casein to a challenge judicial .
according the Position finally agreed by the Society , the difficulties that raises the part 1 , regarding the structure , the procedures and the Constitution , must be corrig?es before the entry in force of the bill of bill , because that they continuously of resulting of the problems of interpretation who finiront by undermine the importance of this legislation .
honourable senators , he must absolutely that we , in this House of reflection , surmontions the barrier and hear this that the government not has not fact - correct the weaknesses of the bill of bill C - 6 .
we not can more we pay the luxury of expect .
the price to pay for the attentisme or the procrastination in this who respect the implementation in implement of a bill on the trade Electronic is too high .
this trade is in expansion and the Canada not can if allow of not not be prepared .
he wanted exchange on the about , to payments of Canadian of the region Atlantic and of deputy - chairman of the exploitation of the Information Learning Institutes , or ITI , a of the centres of training in Technology of the information the more prestigious in America of the North for the graduates academic .
Mr. . Cameron me has said that the drain toward the States - United of Canadians having a strong training university is canto and well real and that he is to the increase in the sector of the Technology of the information .
this situation is become for him a source of dilemma staff .
in as that enseignant , Mr. Cameron is happy of see that of the businesses of high Technology if tears his students and their business of the jobs enthousiasmants , assortis of excellent salaries .
in as that Canadian and taxpayer Canadian , he not is not also happy of see that the majority of the businesses who recrutent his students are of the companies U.S. .
the businesses U.S. are so empress?es of convincing the more great number possible of graduates in Technology of the information that some have even began to offer of the jobs to of the students of the ITI before even that they shifted concluded their training .
I have noticed the malaise grew Mr. Cameron charge by report to the fact that a number growing of students of the ITI who have around their studies on the trade Electronic are now courtis?s attender by several companies U.S. .
a time that they have obtained their diploma , he is rare that these students remain in our country , bearer Cameron think that we have already lost , to the profit of the States - United , a number important of experts in trade Electronic who have received their training to the Canada .
the States - United have already a length of advance on we in the development and the implementation in implement of strategies before allow of learn profit of the economy World represents on the know .
the response lord of the sector private Canadian to the regard of the trade Electronic , conjugu?e to the political governmental inquiries on the plan tax and by report to the reimbursement of the loans students , plays in favour of the businesses U.S. .
we not are not on a foot of equality with the Americans , and he we will very difficult of support their competition in the field of the trade Electronic .
the bill of bill C - 6 , who if seen of the blundering implementation in implement by the Union European and who will to the conflict of the approach American current , not will that empirer the things .
he must adopt a bill of bill who belonging the information personal if we want that the population accept the idea of the trade Electronic .
the Adopted of this bill of bill is also necessary for allow to this new drives economic of succeed to the wide national and international .
the bill of bill C - 6 not we allow not of achieve these objectives .
honourable senators , we not can all simply not we allow of adopt the bill of bill C - 6 such that he is articulate to the hour current .
we have here the opportunity of original this bill of bill order that he protects the life privacy of the Canadians all in allowing to the sector private of vibrant and of remain forefront by report to our Main partner commercial , well course , but also to the wide World .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , to the behalf of the Senator Keon , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act on the Defence national Position Act on the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques Conformity Code criminal
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Fraser , seconded by the hon. Senator Ruck , seconded to the second Reading of the bill of bill S - 10 , Act amend the Act on the Defence national , the Act on the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques and the Code criminal .
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , before of planned my speech , I like thank the Solicitor General of the Canada for have held account of the points that I have raised during of the study of the bills of laws C - 25 , Act amend the Act on the Defence national and of other laws in consequential , and of the bill of bill C - 3 , Act regarding the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques and amend the Code criminal and of other laws in consequential for the development of the bill of bill S - 10 .
these bills of bill have been adopted during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
I am happy of see that the Minister has also took in consideration the recommendations of the sixteenth report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional on the bill of bill C - 3 , in this who has relates to the changes to contribute to the laws for pay the management of the bank national of data g?n?tiques more effective and more respectueuse of the right to the life privacy of the Canadians .
honourable senators , he me fact happy today today of speak in favour of the bill of bill S - 10 , Act amend the Act on the Defence national , the Act regarding the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques and the Code criminal .
he has for purpose of include in the bank national of data g?n?tiques , who has been created by the Adopted of the bill of bill C - 3 , in December 1998 , the profiles of Sites genetics of the offenders burdened in under of the system of justice military .
as you the know , currently , the provisions of the bill not originated that the offenders who will burdened by the system of courts civilians .
since his introduction to the Canada in 1988 , the analysis of the ADN to of the purposes m?dico - legal has licences of obtain the condemnation of authors of some crimes violent , therefore that the postponed in freedom of persons condamn?es to wrong by the courts .
the use of this instrument powerful in the framework of investigations criminal if is made in two steps .
first , in 1995 , of the changes attend concerning to the Code criminal , for allow the levy of ADN to the assistance of a mandate in the purpose facilitate the too of some investigations police and the Sites of suspects .
by the following , in September 1997 , the bill of bill C - 3 was tabled before the House of the Commons .
he had for purpose of encadrer for the first time the structure and the Administration of a bank national of fingerprints g?n?tiques .
this new legislation if inscrivait in the second step of the action of the government .
he had for objective of establish a bank national containing the profiles of Sites genetics of the persons recognized guilty of offences criminal serious and violent , and of the ?chantillons of ADN anywhere on the site of crimes not unravel .
the bank of data should be deploy of here June of the year 2000 , and she will necessarily by the Mounted Royal of the Canada , who heads currently six laboratories judicial to the country .
honourable senators , well that I mandatory seconded the grounds who have led to the Adopted of the bill of bill C - 3 , I have all of even found , following to a review thorough of this new legislation , that the departments of the Solicitor General and of the Justice had forgotten of there include the profiles of Sites genetics of the members of the staff military who would burdened for of the offences serious and violent , as this is the case for the individuals who will anywhere guilty of such crimes by our system of courts civilians .
the 6 October 1998 , the Minister of the Defence , Arthur Eggleton , admired before the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional for present the provisions of the bill of bill C - 25 .
as extend - side had for purpose of reform the system of justice military , I have asked to the Minister if the military charged or anywhere guilty in under of the new bill would subjects to the application of the provisions CTAISB in the bill of bill C - 3 .
to the then , I have also asked to the Minister what body of police , of the RCMP or of the police military would responsible of the levy of ?chantillons of ADN and of their conservation in the case of offences who impliquent of the military .
honourable senators , these questions were very important because , according the provisions of the bill of bill C - 25 , the offences of Order body avid by of the military altering now met of the courts military .
of more , the Minister of the Justice , Anne McLellan , had already justified the creation of a bank of fingerprints g?n?tiques for that the policiers shifted a effectiveness increased and ensure in legislation of stop more quickly the perpetrators sexual and the murderers to repetition .
despite all , the Minister and the military of the Defence national not have not been in legislation of answer to these questions .
the Brigadier - General J . Pitzul , of the army Canadian , has claimed that he not knew not if the bill of bill C - 3 party if apply to the staff of the army and of the Defence national , even if he had already had several meetings with of the members of the Department of the Justice in this who had relates to the reform of the system of justice military .
he if 13 therefore of a oversight very important in the bill , if the you consider that the bill of bill C - 25 party pay the Administration of the justice , to the within of the Forces Armed Canadian , more transparent .
in this sense , he was unacceptable that the military entitlements of a status particular in met excluded of the application of the provisions of the new Act regarding the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques .
that is particularly true if the you keeps account of the fact that to the during of the past years , several scandals involving of the military in mission to the abroad in of the case abuse purchase and of Means of fact serious have d?fray? the headlines to the Canada .
these incidents have terni the image of the army Canadian and of his system of justice in the population Canadian .
the organization of our society , all as similar of our right , require the consistency .
all the citizens are equal before the bill .
they lags of the same rights but also of the same obligations before the bill .
to the then , the members of the Committee not had not felt good of original the bill of bill C - 25 for that the staff military be submitted to the application of the clause , regarding the bank of fingerprints g?n?tiques .
honourable senators , when we have examined the bill of bill C - 3 in Committee , I have raised of new this question deposited of the Solicitor General of the Canada , who was responsible of this new legislation .
in a Prime time , I wanted know if his Department was in agreed with this that had claimed the Minister of the Defence and the officers of the army Canadian .
in a second time , I intended that the Minister me notwithstanding that he had held account of their evidence for contribute of the changes to the bill of bill C - 3 .
the response to these two questions was negative .
during of the business of the Committee , I had also issued of serious reserves further to the effectiveness and to the lacked of some provisions of the bill of bill who party guarantee , including , that the ?chantillons of ADN and the profiles not would not used to of other purposes that those ensuing in the bill , this is - to - say for of the purposes of inquiry criminal , and that the right to the life privacy of the persons who would presently to the levy of ADN be sufficient .
I had also left in question the fact that the bill of bill required that the profiles g?n?tiques , who would Democrats in the to fichier criminalistique to and the to fichier of the burdened to , altering be prominent pronouncements after that a inquiry was d?clar?e not thinks , that a individual not was more considered as suspect , or if a verdict of acquittement or of not - culpability final was said by the court to the place of a accused .
according me , these profiles , despite this that have claimed the scientific of the RCMP , if altering of be spawning for reduce the risks that they ensure used to of other purposes that those prescrites in the bill .
in December 1998 , the sixteenth report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional illegality the emergency of establish a bank national of fingerprints g?n?tiques who step to the different body policiers of the country of exploit fully the progress technological recent in this field for improve the security public .
the report recommended therefore to the government federal of strengthen the provisions legislation regarding the Administration of the bank of data g?n?tiques and the security of the information who will CTAISB in this last .
in the purpose of answer to these concerns and for allow therefore the Adopted of the bill of bill C - 3 , for Authorize the creation immediate of the bank of data g?n?tiques , the Solicitor General of the Canada , Lawrence MacAulay , if is committed , during of his appearance before the Committee , the 7 December 1998 , to present during the intervalle expected of 18 months between the Assent Royal and the entry in force of the bill of bill C - 3 , a new bill of bill who step including of expand the juridiction of the bank of data g?n?tiques to the Offenders who are recognized guilty in the system of justice military ; of require the Commissioner of the Mounted Royal of the Canada to pay account of the operating of the bank of data g?n?tiques in his report annual to the Minister before his Tabled before the Parliament ; of include in the new bill of bill a clause requiring a review Parliamentary all the five years for relieve the concern of the members of the Committee regarding the nature very sensitive the information that contiendra the bank of data g?n?tiques and of the evolution quick of the Technology in this field , and give to the committees of the Senate and of the House of the Commons the even power of proceed to the review mindful who will expected by the new bill .
he is important of mention that all these elements bannock in the sixteenth report of the Committee .
honourable senators , the bill of bill S - 10 has been machinery in service of some points soulign?s in the report of the Committee .
according me , he if is of the third step of the legislation federal in the field of the use of the fingerprints g?n?tiques for the too of investigations criminal .
by against , the Solicitor General has asked that the bill of bill be presented to the Senate before of be tabled before the House of the Commons order that the senators carry if ensure that all the points considered pr?occupants shifted been completed properly by your Committee Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
having relat? the historic of this bill of bill , I like now address the question of the changes proposed by the bill of bill S - 10 .
to the words of the new bill of bill , as I the have mentioned to the beginning of my speech , the profiles of Sites genetics of the offenders justiciables in under of the Code of discipline military who are declared guilty of a offence serious and accompanied of violence will included in the bank of data g?n?tiques .
this Code if applies to the staff military , to the Reserves and to some civilians who accompanies of the members of the staff military to the abroad .
in under of the provisions of the bill of bill S - 10 , the judges military will cause , first , to pay of the guidelines Impediment to the bank of data g?n?tiques to the regard of persons justiciables , in under of the Code of discipline military , who discuss been d?clar?es guilty of a offence pantheon in under of the Printed of the Act regarding the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques , and second , to Crowshoe of the mandates relating to the analyses g?n?tiques to the purposes of investigations intimate by the police military on of the offences d?sign?es who discuss been avid by of the persons met under the juridiction of the Code of discipline military , to the Canada as to the abroad .
currently , the bill allows the police military to obtain a mandate for the levy of ADN only if he if is of a offence who was commise to the Canada .
the fact that the police military be now Cabinet to obtain a mandate for a offence pantheon commise to the abroad is a net improvement , if the you keeps account of the fact that more de4 100,000 members of the staff military are in service heroic missions to the abroad and that of the incidents serious involving of the military Canadian if are products in Somalia and in Bosnia - Herz?govine .
as in the case of the provisions current of the Act regarding the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques , the bill of bill S - 10 provides that the ?chantillons therefore that the results of the analyses must be Message to the Commissioner of the Mounted Royal of the Canada for be tabled in the bank of data .
the new bill provides also that the provisions who will included in the Act on the Defence national , regarding the Authorized of inquire of ADN , the manipulation and the conservation of the ?chantillons and the results of analysis genetics , and the guarantees in this who has relates to the respect of the right to the life privacy , will identiques to those who are CTAISB in the Act regarding the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques .
by against , they have been adjusted to the context of the system of justice military .
he is important of remind that the Act regarding the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques contains a list of offences d?sign?es who refers that all individual sentenced for the a of these offences could do the subject of a taken of fingerprints g?n?tiques for purposes of analysis m?dico - legal .
this list has been divided in two types of offences : resource and school .
in the case of the offences Primary , the ?chantillons are bailed necessarily to the time of the condemnation , except in of the case of circumstances exceptional .
you there find including the offences with violence the more serious and the offences to uniqueness body , offences that the elements of evidence to uniqueness genetics can the better ?lucider .
you there groups including the offences following : inceste , exploitation to of the purposes purchase , murder , homicide involontaire found , abuse army or infliction of l?sions Finland , infliction intentionnelle of l?sions Finland , abuse sexual , abuse sexual serious , enl?vement and s?questration .
in the case of the offences high , the levy not is not required .
by against , the Crown must convince the Justice that the levy of ?chantillons is in the interest of the security public .
he if is of offences least serious where the analysis genetics not can not always be used for solve a crime or in prevent of other .
you there groups between other these elements : use of devices , actions of piraterie , Means of fact , introduction by effraction in a stimulate criminal , fire criminal , infliction of the death by neglect criminal , Means of fact against a officer of the peace , flight qualified , taken of hostage .
in under of the bill of bill S - 10 , this list who limit the situations where he there has inquire of ADN if apply now to the members of the staff military who discuss been burdened for have committed these offences .
in a Prime time , the new bill provides amend some parties of the Act regarding the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques for hold account of the changes concerning to the Act on the Defence national .
of more , the section 12 of the bill of bill provides that , in the five years following the entry in force of the bill , a Committee of the Senate , of the House of the Commons or Joint welcomes to a review of the provisions and of the application of the bill .
this even section provides also that a report on the activity of the bank of data will tabled each year by the Commissioner of the Mounted Royal of the Canada .
he will tabled before each House of the Parliament in the 15 first days of sitting of similar - side following the reception of this last .
these changes discuss for effect of answer to the concerns of the members of the Committee in giving to the Parliament the means of better monitor and of control the Administration of the bank of data g?n?tiques .
finally , the bill is amended by the bill of bill S - 10 for that he be clear statement that the profiles of Sites genetics and the marine Finland random in view of the establish not must serve that to of the purposes of Sites during of investigations criminal .
honourable senators , I wish to highlight that the bill of bill S - 10 amending also several changes of Order technical for clarify more some aspects of the Code criminal in this who has relates to the application of the Act regarding the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques .
these changes attend proposed following to the creation of a group of work federal - provincial who had for mandate of put in Bill the new bank of data g?n?tiques .
following to several meetings , the officials provincial of the sectors of the security public and of the justice have claimed that the bill current not was not enough clear in this who has relates to the circumstances who doing that a Justice not has not to Appear a levy of ADN .
the bill of bill S - 10 meets to these concern in setting clear that a levy not has not to be ordered if the court is informed that the profile genetics of the human categorically if find already in the bank of data g?n?tiques .
of more , the bill of bill S - 10 provides that a Justice of a court provincial will authorized to viserne order or a Authorized of levy of ADN who will been decided or signifying in a other province .
finally , this bill of bill amending several other changes technical to the Code criminal for that the regime regarding the levy of marine Finland for analysis genetics to of the purposes m?dico - legal be clarifi? and strengthened .
in ending , honourable senators , I am happy of see to new that , through to the resolute of the members of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , the Act on the Defence national , the Act regarding the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques and the Code criminal will , to my notice , and I am course that you received of agreed with me , greatly am?lior?s by the bill of bill S - 10 for answer to the concerns of this House regarding the creation and the management of the new bank national of data g?n?tiques .
as I the have said to the beginning of my speech , he if is of a tool extremely powerful who will of the impact important on our system of justice and on our society .
the provisions of the bill of bill S - 10 expect in sort that the right to the life privacy of the Canadians will more sufficient in balisant of way more specific for the policiers and the courts the use of profiles g?n?tiques for of the purposes of investigations criminal .
I can you ensure that the bill of bill will the subject of a review seriously by the Committee for if ensure that he changing to the concerns ?mises by the members this House he there has now year .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , if no other Senator not wishes take the speak , I orators of the before with the motion .
the hon. Senator Fraser , seconded by the hon. Senator Ruck , move that the bill of bill be read a second time .
you pleasure - he of adopt the motion , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill is read a second time . )
referred to the Committee
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a third time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Fraser , the bill of bill is referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and constitutionnellles . )
the Act admissibility the taken of decisions Medical
second Reading - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Carstairs , seconded by the hon. Senator pin , seconded to the second Reading of the bill of bill S - 2 , Act admissibility the taken of decisions Medical legitimate relatively to the treatment of survival and to the treatment of the pain , be read a second time . - (
the hon. Senator Lavoie - Lavoie ) .
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , any legislation legislative dealing to the questions of life and of death demands of the parliamentarians a reflection of the more depth .
this is therefore very carefully that I have examined the bill of bill S - 2 , Act admissibility the taken of decisions Medical legitimate relatively to the treatment of survival and to the treatment of the pain .
I have consulted of eminent ?thiciens , whose of the members of the Association Catholic Canadian of the health and of the Care - respectively - Dying Coalition / Canadian Coalition Against Euthanasia , which together a Diori of organizations diss?min?es in all the country who pr?conisent the care compassionate , fair and respectueux of the unevenly .
I getting also appeal to my experience personal for the purposes of the study of this bill of bill .
to payments staff , I have had to take of the decisions and to do of the recommendations regarding the relevance of extend the care medical that actual of the beings loved in Phase seeks .
I know of experience how he can be difficult of take this kind of decision for the professionals of the health and the members of the family .
in addition , he is important in the framework of a such debate legislative of determine the convictions personal of each , this that each charge in his visitors within .
I believe firmly in the dignity and in the value intrinsic of the human human .
I believe that all the beings human must be respected , and this , to all the steps of the life , of the conception to the death .
in clear , honourable senators , I me objects to the Assisted and to the suicide attended because that these means are exceeded with the dignity human .
by elsewhere , I acknowledge the rights legal that the patients have of refuse a treatment and I am all to fact in favour of the promotion of the care palliative as average of inevitable the suffering physical .
the illness , the suffering and the death doing part integral of the experience human .
the act of die can be the opportunity of a admired taken of conscience of itself who unacceptably to of the people of affirming freely and consciemment the latitude of their life , and not simply a process inexorable referred he must if options passivement .
of other share , the advanced scientific and technological in Equity of care of health have improved significantly our ability of soigner the diseases , of inevitable the suffering and of extend the life .
these progress not are not without raise of the questions ?thiques that the society not had never had to if ask .
he is of the case where extend the life by of the means artificiels is a painful burden for the human mourante or the family .
he is necessary of arrive to a balance between two obligations : similar of not not give intentionnellement the death to a human and similar of not not approach , for maintain a human in life , to of the procedures who imposeraient a burden disproportionate by report to the benefits to learn of these procedures .
account held of that , I find that the bill of bill S - 2 has to the time some aspects positive and some aspects negative .
I support the intention of the bill of bill , who is of clarify the distinctions surrounding the decision of put end to the life of a human , in particular the court or the interruption of the treatment , the case afforded , and the use of pharmacare for already the pain .
he is legal and moral that a soignant given of the pharmacare for already the pain to a human whose the life is in danger , even if these pharmacare continuously of abr?ger the life of the human in question , to condition that the intention not be not of resulting the death .
the Senate having been informed of the fact that some coping entrepreneurial to administering enough of pharmacare for already the pain by fear of be criminellement responsible , this bill of bill is a legislation positive .
the inclusion in this bill of bill of a clause challenged that Health Canada Municipal of the lines guidelines national relatively to the forbearance and to the interruption of the traitemen , identifying the professionals of the health and improving their training in this who respect the treatment of the pain and the care palliative and convey of the research on the fr?quence of forbearance or of interruption of the treatment is a other legislation positive .
to present that we have established the need of protect the coping who want sincerely inevitable the pain of the patients , we must ensure to this that this legislation legislative , if she is agreed , not be not a door met to the Assisted direct , l?galis?e .
this is this that redoute the Coalition national for the life , who consider this bill of bill as a Prime not toward the creation of a request in the field of the assistance to the suicide .
honourable senators , hence the dilemma referred we are face .
how be course that the act medical soulage indeed the pain , well that he be investigator of abr?ger the life ?
how know if a patient not has not been submitted to of the pressure for that he accept the treatment ?
this treatment become he of use standard in the case where he not introduce not of danger of death ?
in few words , side - we on the point of jeopardizing the integrity of the life , which , in our quality of legislators , we are held of protect in despite of our desire legitimate of inevitable the pain ?
hence many of questions who ineffective a review thorough in Committee Senate , if the bill of bill just to preferred the step of the second Reading .
to my notice , we should give following to this initiative .
the question deserves that we hear the effort of develop a good text of bill in the interest of all the Canadians .
well that this text not severing not the Code criminal , I believe understand that he not intended not to in relieve the provisions prevented the Assisted and the suicide attended .
however , in his wording present , nothing not guarantees that this be indeed the case .
the question deserves a new review and a more ample reflection .
he appropriate of clarify that the human to which he is fact referring to the section 2 is a human whose the Late is finalization and inexorable .
he not must not omettre of the clarify , this who not is not the case to present .
if the intention of the l?gislateur is of inevitable the suffering of a individual struck of a affection virtuellement mortelle , that this the be clear indicated in the text .
I move , during of the study in Committee , that be embraced a amendment appropriate to this section , followed of changes corr?latives .
honourable senators , he must also if remind that he there has of the situations establish a danger of death who not are not 2.4 to a death imminente and inexorable .
he there has of many conditions predicted and to long term who not sells not necessarily the life in danger .
a diab?tique who fact a seriousness diab?tique fact opposite to a condition d?l?t?re , but the death not is never imminente or inexorable .
of more , a human who is supposed be in Phase seeks , who suffering of a illness chronic or whose the condition if worsening not is not typifies in a situation d?l?t?re , and the bill of bill should the clarify clear .
for the moment , I promotes the principle transpired that a human who fact opposite to the threat of a death imminente and inexorable has right to the relief of his suffering and that the doctor or the infirmi?re who load therefore his suffering not should not be passible of prosecutions .
however , we not must not open the door to the Assisted direct .
he must if ensure that he not there gave not a bad interpretation of the real subject of the bill of bill .
I invite the Senate to act of way diligente in this case .
in response to the question that I him have submitted when she has open the debate in second Reading , the Senator Carstairs has quoted the cat?chisme of the church Catholic as following :
even if the death is considered as imminente , the care ongoing preventable to a human patient not can be legitimately aborted .
the use of the analg?siques for credit the suffering of the moribond , even to the risk of abr?ger his days , can be morally consistent to the dignity human if the death not is not ongoing , or as end or as average ...
this or , honourable senators , is useful , but memories - we that she is partiellement by the statement next :
what that in ensure the grounds and the means , the Assisted direct introducing to put end to the life of persons disabilities , patients or compassionate .
she is morally completed .
I am sure that in unissant their efforts , the senators can write a bill who help to maintain the dignity and the rights of a patient whose the death is imminente and inexorable therefore that the standards professional of a professional of the health .
honourable senators , this bill of bill we give also the opportunity of strengthen the support to the programs of care palliative to the Canada .
of good care palliative are 118.8 to credit the suffering and to improve the quality of life of the persons who live with a illness avanc?e or who in milking .
renfor?ons this need growing to the Canada .
( on the motion of the Senator Roche , to the behalf of the Senator Lavoie - Lavoie , the debate is adjourned . )
Affairs legal and Constitutional
motion Requesting the Authorized of use the documents and evidence collected during of the review of the bill of bill precedent for the study of the bill of bill present - Stands of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Oliver , seconded by the hon. Senator Di Nino :
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional to the during of his study of the faults bill S - 17 , Act amend the Code criminal relatively to the harassment criminal and to of other subjects related , during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament , ensure removed to the Committee , when he will been set , for the presented study of the bill of bill S - 6 . - (
the hon. Senator Cools ) .
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I believe that the Senator Oliver is to the outset and that he able take the speak to this about .
I had indicated that I him c?derais my time of speak .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , in the absence of the Senator Oliver and account held of the hour , I move that this question be surgeons until to this that he be disposable .
the Senator Cools :
honourable senators , must - we until this question to the behalf of the Senator Oliver ?
I wishes propose the adjournment in his behalf .
a Senators :
not .
the Senator Cools :
someone a must speak if this question will let .
a Senators :
Inscrivez - the in this case to your behalf !
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , the question not can be occasion because that the Senator Oliver not is not here .
the Senator Cools wishes until the question .
the Senator Cools :
honourable senators , I believe that the Leader of the Senator Oliver him has explained very carefully that , according this that I had including , I him c?dais the speak .
( the debate is order . )
Authorized to the Committee of use the documents and evidence collected during of the review of the bill of bill precedent for the study of the bill of bill present
the hon. Joan Fraser , in Conformity with the notice 17 November 99 , move :
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional to the during of his study of the faults bill C - 69 , Act amend the Act on the stopped judicial and a other bill in consequential , during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament , ensure removed to the Committee for the presented study of the bill of bill C - 7 .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate if adjourned to the Tuesday 23 November 99 , to 14 p.m. . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 10
the Tuesday 23 November 99
the hon. Rose - Marie Losier - Losier , Speaker Pro tempore
table of the Contents
' ' '
the Late of Laurence Decore
the Late of Delia Grey
the review of the policy foreign of the Canada
the fifth anniversary of the Tabled of the report final of the Committee Joint Special
the policy of integration Bucharest of the farmers ukrainiens in the kolkhozes agricultural of the former - Union Soviet
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
the adjournment
bill of bill of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
first Reading
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe of the 21 May 99 - Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian
meetings of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe fairest the 18 June and of the 21 to the 25 June 99 - Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe held of the 20 to the 25 September 99 - Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe held the 25 August 99 - Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian
agriculture and Forestry
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to study the state present and the prospects of future of the agriculture
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to study the state present and the prospects of future of the Forestry
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to Services of the staff and to if adjourn
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to allow the Electronic of his deliberations
Peoples aboriginal
commission Royal on the Peoples aboriginal - Notice of motion Authorize the Committee to study the recommendations relatively to the service government aboriginal and to apply the Crosbie received and the evidence heard during the first session
PERIOD PERIOD question
privileges , Rules and procedure
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate - Conformity subject of the meetings
the work
the situation criticism of the without - homeless - Position Position of the government
the fisheries and the Oceans
the provinces Maritimes - Changes Particulars on the decision of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of fishing of the aboriginal
the Affairs Indian and the North Canadian
the provinces marine - Changes Particulars on the decision of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of fishing of the aboriginal - Changes comments of the Minister
the Affairs foreign
the Sudan - Conformity role of the society Talisman Energy - Position Position of the government on the Opposition between the plateforme of the security human and the interests of the investors
the Finance
the policy of the government on the increase of the rate of interest
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the conditions of a next referendum Quebec - Position Position of the government
the Defence national
the narrower white of 1994 - Position policy of the government
the Alternative of the canoeing of helicopters Sea King
the former Veterans
the study on the institutions of health - Conformity influence of the report of the under - Committee of the Senate
the Affairs foreign
the Kosovo - Conformity assistance government
the Program of Exchange of pages with the House of the Commons
Order OF orders
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading - Continued of the debate
bill of bill of 99 on the implementation in implement of conventions tax
second Reading - Continued of the debate
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Continued of the debate
Affairs legal and Constitutional
Authorized to the Committee of use the documents and evidence collected during of the review of the bill of bill precedent for the study of the bill of bill present
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
motion Authorize the Committee to study the facts new regarding the Assisted and the assistance to the suicide - Adjourned of the debate
Banking and trade
Authorized to the Committee of study the situation of the regime financial domestique and international
the SENATE
the Tuesday 23 November 99
the sitting is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker pro tempore met to the Chair .
prayers .
the Late of Laurence Decore
the Late of Delia Grey
the hon. Thelma J . Chalifoux :
Delia Grey is born in the North of the Alberta in 1917 , but has grew in the region of St. - Penitentiary .
Lawrence Decore is born to Vegreville , in Alberta , in 1940 and has grew to Vegreville , Ottawa and Edmonton .
these two leaders have borrowed of the sentiers different certainly , but , each to his manner , they have contributed to the better - be of the Peoples aboriginal and of the new came who if are fascism here for enable their dreams .
Lawrence has been a member loyalist of the Party Liberal of the Alberta and of the Canada who has fought for the right and the possible for all of do part of the organizes Canadian .
Delia has been a life loyal and caring of the nation tis and of the Canada who has tireless without tirelessly for the tis and the Peoples of the First Nations order that them also carry enable their dreams and do part of the organizes Canadian .
the challenges that these two persons have known met with courage are too many for the list all here , but I atteste before you , honourable senators , to the time of the changes who have been prominent possible through to the implement of these persons and of their life of dedication aside to the service of their fellow .
their wisdom , their kindness and their generosity will regrett?es by all those and all those who the have met on their road , but the heritage that they we suggest if perp?tuera in our children and our history .
we should celebrate their life and express the happiness that we have had of the know all two .
they we miss .
the review of the policy foreign of the Canada
the fifth anniversary of the Tabled of the report final of the Committee Joint Special
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , this months - side Gallery the fifth anniversary of the Tabled of the report final of the Committee Joint responsible of the review of the policy foreign of the Canada .
this report contained almost of a cinquantaine of recommendations regarding of the subjects also extensive that the contribution to the development sustainable , the strengthening of the security common in way by the renewal of the assistance international .
in a letter that I adressais to the Minister of the Affairs foreign , the hon. Lloyd Axworthy , the 2 November last , I told to the Minister a implementation to day therefore that the measures concrete taken by the Department since the Tabled of this report .
without have still received a response , he appert that the healthier of the Finance public has substantially reduced the assistance foreign Canadian to the country in seaway of development .
then that the Committee recommended of gradually the budget to the assistance public to the development to 0,7p. per of the 1994 , this ratio is past of 0,45p. per in 1991 to 0,26p. per for the fiscal financial 99 - 2000 .
a second aspect sir to the Committee was the promotion and the rayonnement of the culture and of the know Canadian .
this is the first time that a review also serious dealt on this about .
the Canada fact found of parent poor , if the you consider the dominant investment facts to this chapter by the government Canadian .
in appeals a response of the Minister , who me allow of assessment the work of the Department of the Affairs foreign to the during of the five past years , I wanted highlight the work seriously accomplished by this Committee .
the policy of integration Bucharest of the farmers ukrainiens in the kolkhozes agricultural of the former - Union Soviet
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , he there has approximately 67 years , a event terrible and very sad has changed for always the life of the population Baltic .
this is in 1932 - 1933 that the Leader Soviet Joseph Stalin , in view of contraindre the million of farmers ukrainiens to move to the agriculture collective Soviet , has adopted , of way d?moniaque , several tactics designed to dramatically a refer policy .
he has adopted of the measures such that the increase of the quota of System c?r?alier in Ukraine to 44 per , order of create a lack exhaustion of grain and of standard the inability of the paysans ukrainiens of if esteem , the implementation in place of a system of passeports international Use to limit the travelling of the Ukrainiens to the research of food , the enforcement of any human surprise to take or to cover of the grain in a kolkhoze , the persecution of thousands of wager , of writers and of leaders ukrainiens and the assaut to the assistance of tanks and of Turkey of villages habit?s by of the farmers without Defence .
this not are there that few - concerns of the measures political horribles taken by the Leader Soviet Joseph Stalin and by his man of labour Lazar Kaganovich in view of sky the showing of resistance of the Ukraine .
despite the efforts challenges Process for cover or effacer the atrocity of this refer policy , of the academic succession have coast of the evidence concrete who created of assessment to approximately 10 million the number of victims of the genocide .
he is regrettable that the world World not gave not recognized or including the magnitude of the genocide when the Union Soviet properly still .
the leaders current of the Kremlin having recognized this event historic atrocious , this last must be including and comm?mor? .
he wrote :
this that I have seen this morning - there was if prosecutors that he not there has not of words for the describe .
they had been took to the pi?ge and caught each home him to die of hunger , pursuant to a decision policy taken in a capital very remote , around of tables of conference and of succession .
they not had even not the prize of the in?vitabilit? for inevitable the horror .
I know that the senators in this House are of ardents advocates of the because of the rights of the human therefore that of the dignity and of the value of all the beings human .
I you encourage therefore , honourable senators , to you join this night to the Congress eke Canadian and to the Group of friendship Canada - Ukraine order of pay tribute to the victims of the genocide by the refer orchestr? in Ukraine in 1932 - 1933 .
you have received a notice to your offices , but I you remind that this event will held this night to 19 p.m. 30 in the Block of the Centre , Room Darrel - C .
I am confident that the honourable senators profiteront of this opportunity for pay tribute to the victims of the refer .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , and notwithstanding the section 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate if adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until to tomorrow , the Wednesday 24 November 99 , to 13 p.m. 30 .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
bill of bill of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
first Reading
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore informed the Senate that he has received of the Commons a message informed of the bill of bill C - 4 , Act Authorize implementation in implement of the Agreement concluded between the government of the Canada , the governments of States members of the Agency spatiale European , the government of the Japan , the government of the Federation of Russia and the government of the States - United of America on the cooperation Current to the Station spatiale international civil and Dolly of the changes related to of other laws .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the sitting Thursday 25 November 99 . )
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe of the 21 May 99 - Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe on the delegation Canadian to the meeting held the 21 May 99 to Paris , in France , of the Commission of the environment , of the facility of the territory and of the powers local of the Council of the Europe .
meetings of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe fairest the 18 June and of the 21 to the 25 June 99 - Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the second report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe on the delegation Canadian to the sittings of the commission of the questions economic and of the development of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe fairest to the seat of the Organization of cooperation and of development economic ( OECD ) , to Paris , the 18 June , therefore that to the session plenary of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe held to Strasbourg , in France , of the 21 to the 25 June 99 .
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe held of the 20 to the 25 September 99 - Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the third report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe on the delegation canadienne? the session plenary of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Conseilde the Europe held to Strasbourg , in France , of the 20 25 September 99 .
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe held the 25 August 99 - Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the fourth report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe on the delegation Canadian to the meeting of the Committee Standing of the parliamentarians of the region arctique held the 25 August 99 to Mourmansk , in Russia .
agriculture and Forestry
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to study the state present and the prospects of future of the agriculture
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , I give notice that Wednesday next , the 24 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry be authorized to study the state present and the prospects of future of the agriculture to the Canada ; and
that the Committee convey report to the more later 29 June 2001 .
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to study the state present and the prospects of future of the Forestry
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , I give notice that Wednesday next , the 24 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry be authorized to study the state present and the prospects of future of the Forestry to the Canada ; and
that the Committee convey report to the more later 29 June 2001 .
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to Services of the staff and to if adjourn
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , I give notice that Wednesday next , the 24 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , personnel , employees of office or other elements necessary for examine the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have been An ; and
that the Committee be authorized to if adjourn to across the Canada and to the abroad to the purposes of such reviews .
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to allow the Electronic of his deliberations
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , I give notice that Wednesday next , the 24 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry be authorized to allow the meaning of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
Peoples aboriginal
commission Royal on the Peoples aboriginal - Notice of motion Authorize the Committee to study the recommendations relatively to the service government aboriginal and to apply the Crosbie received and the evidence heard during the first session
the hon. Charlie Watt :
honourable senators , I give notice that Wednesday , the 24 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal be authorized to do a study and to present a report on the recommendations of the Commission Royal on the Peoples aboriginal ( Document parlementaireno 2 / 35 - 508 ) relatively to the service government aboriginal and more particularly , to obtain the point of view of the Peoples aboriginal and of the other involved on the questions following :
2 . the mechanisms necessary to the ushered of the new relations structurelles ;
3 . the models of self government aboriginal necessary for answer to the needs of the Peoples aboriginal and for concorder with the new relations structurelles ;
that the Crosbie received and the evidence heard on the question by the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal during the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament ensure An to the Committee ;
that the Committee tabled his report final to the more later 16 December 99 , and that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the Electronic of the results of his study content in his report final and this until to the 24 December 99 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices usual , to table his report deposited of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be reputation have tabled to the Senate .
PERIOD PERIOD question
privileges , Rules and procedure
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate - Conformity subject of the meetings
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Senator Austin , chairman of the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure .
in the Journals of the Senate of the 18 November , to the page 128 , the Senator pin , to the behalf of the Senator Austin , has proposed , seconded by the Senator Mercier , the motion next :
that the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure be authorized to sit to 16 p.m. 30 the duration , even if the Senate seat , of now to the end of December 99 , order that the Committee can study the questions of privilege ...
honourable senators , I have received today today a Order of the day .
his exp?diteur not is not identified , but I know that he respect the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure who must if meet today today , the 23 November , to 16 p.m. 30 . Cinq questions listed to the Order of the day , whose four not have nothing to see with the question of privilege .
the Senate has authorized the Committee to sit in concomitance only for that he can study the questions of privilege .
the Speaker of the Committee could - she we give of the explanation to this about and ensure to this that the instructions of the Senate ensure observed by the unto ?
the hon. Jack Austin :
honourable senators , the Order of the day of the Committee has been sent by the Clerk of the Committee and I not in have took knowledge that to afternoon .
I then ensure the senators that we commencerons by the question of privilege raised by the Senator Andreychuk , followed of similar raised by the Senator Kinsella .
however , I had hoped that we could take a Diori of seconds of our time this after - afternoon for Authorize the abdication to the rights in this who respect the request introduced by the church morave of America .
no member of the Committee not charge of problem to this regard .
the church morave of America has corrected his rights to the opportunity of the last session and wish do as if these rights had been fellows .
the Committee will then free of deal exclusively of the questions of privilege before of return to the House for obtain of other guidelines .
the work
the situation criticism of the without - homeless - Position Position of the government
the hon. Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
according of the information , the cabinet studying currently a proposal providing a expenditure of 1,2 billion of $ oude 200 million of $ by year for struggle against the itin?rance .
the spring last , the government has children to the Minister of the Labour the mandate of find a solution and she was supposed develop a strategy in the months following .
this was the spring last .
the Winter Strike to our doors .
the Leader of the government can - he say to the Senate when exactly the cabinet will prepared to present a plan relatif to the itin?rance and to the put in implement ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
I thank the hon. Senator of have asked this question .
this is clearly a problem who presented of the risen serious across to the country and who has many win the attention of the government .
the Minister of the Labour if is d?plac?e of a across to the other of the country for trying of between the government of the administered and of obtain their comments regarding the enforcement of his mandate .
as the know the honourable senators , for come to across of the problem as he agreeable , he met presumably of the resources additional .
the resources necessary will determined in the framework of the process budget normal .
the Senator Cohen :
honourable senators , I am well to the aware of the number of miles that the Minister has parcourus in the country .
I wish to remind to the honourable senators that the need if imposes now , before that the snow starts to let .
why no plan not has he still been adopted , in November , in view of guarantee of the gripped for the Winter ?
the Senator Boudreau :
I not like not let to the honourable senators the Appendix that no legislation not will agreed this Winter .
I believe understand , honourable senators , that to this stage - side , this is a problem important who has been raised by the Minister of the Labour , and I me forward to this that of other measures carry be announcements under little .
the fisheries and the Oceans
the provinces Maritimes - Changes Particulars on the decision of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of fishing of the aboriginal
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , I have a question to ask to the Leader of the government to the Senate on the case Marshall .
the Minister if learned that the decision original has given held to someone confusion .
in despite of the Particulars who have been data , the Minister of the Affairs Indian , Robert Nault , upholds always that the rights aboriginal abrogate of treaties if apply to the resources natural .
the Leader of the government to the Senate is aware of the consequences of this decision or of this Position .
the Minister say - he to the Senate if this is there the Position of the government also ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
according me , the judges have said that they wanted that their judgment if applies to the questions who their have been presently and that they not were not loans to in expand the application in of other areas .
I not believe not that they shifted excluded these other difference .
they if are born?s to say that he not needed not , by extrapolation , apply their decision to of the circumstances other that those who are simple by she .
to the hour current , the government if consistent to this judgment , and the confusion that the Court Supreme has embraced will of a great lot for the discussions who are in during and who , hope - the , poisoned of the results positive .
the Affairs Indian and the North Canadian
the provinces marine - Changes Particulars on the decision of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of fishing of the aboriginal - Changes comments of the Minister
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , as the Leader of the government to the Senate the knows , the Minister Nault has tried of speak in the process and of if put in obviously to the wide national - and I selected my words with prudence - in if there insinuant can - be a little too .
met given that he has created the Appendix that the cabinet support the idea that the judgment spread the right ancestral to several other resources , and met given that the Leader seat to the table of the cabinet , he cite can - be do understand to his colleagues of the cabinet that he should bring to the not this clone of Doug Young and the require to if conform to the Position of the cabinet .
the problems if aggraveront in the region of the Atlantic if this clone - and I employ this word with prudence - continues in the seaway of the destruction of the resources of the region of the Atlantic .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I hope that the Senator Comeau me pardonnera if I greetings his sense General to the Minister in of the words a little more moderate .
I not have not heard directly his comments , but the Minister wanted can - be say that any the question aboriginal is more vast and not if reduced not to a sector particular of the resources .
I believe that the confusion embraced by the Court Supreme if is slaughterhouse useful for solve this who step a problem very immediate in the sector of the fishing .
I hope therefore that the you bill to solve the problem when the representative of the government in the Equity brings the various parties interested of the world of the fishing , there including the representatives aboriginal in the region of the Atlantic .
he must hope that that can well augurer of the solution of other problems in dangling regarding the aboriginal .
the Affairs foreign
the Sudan - Conformity role of the society Talisman Energy - Position Position of the government on the Opposition between the plateforme of the security human and the interests of the investors
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
she fact following in reality to a question that I have raised the week last to the hon. Minister regarding the society Talisman Energy , of Calgary .
this morning even , the coverage let continues of the situation indicates that of the shareholders of Talisman , including a group representative of the funds of mutual and of the funds of Pension of congr?gations religious , doing pressure since a year on the society for that she studying the consequences Social and economic of his presence to the Sudan .
in a section released today today in the branch to Opinions to of the Globe The Mail , Tim Ryan , a priest Catholic who is since long actionnaire of Talisman , described the efforts Process for takes this society of energy , therefore that all the companies Canadian , to assume the role of stakeholders responsible in the economy and to adopt a Code of the rights of the human .
the government is - he prepared to protect the interests of the shareholders Canadian if the mission of inquiry as attendue indicates that the presence of Talisman EnergyInc. to the Sudan contributes directly to the violation of the rights of the human in this country ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
I me commitment to the do .
further to know if the government Canadian takes of the measures for protect the shareholders , I not am not sure of understand this that the hon. Senator committed by there .
if he could me give more of Particulars on the kind of measures that he maybe update , I could can - be him give a response .
the Senator Oliver :
SelonM. Ryan in the section of the Globe The Mail , the chairman of Talisman would asked : to Pourquoi we ? to
this to what , always economist Ryan , a group of shareholders would answered :
... this that we asking to Talisman we attempting systematically of the obtain of all the companies : a Code of conduct exhaustive covering the rights trap of the human therefore that the standards recognized in Equity social , environmental and of work , of the rep?res documentation allowing of measure the respect of these commitments and a system of audit credible of the performance of the society .
the Senator Boudreau :
in this who respect the society even , I have already said to the honourable senators that if the inquiry confirmed the very serious allegations whose she fact the subject , he is obvious that he should consider of take of the measures against this last , or against any other society if finding in a situation similar .
in this who respect of the measures specific that the government of the Canada could take to the behalf of the shareholders for protect their interests financial or for Appear to the society of take some measures , I not know always not to the fair this that move the Senator .
the Senator Oliver :
the shareholders have said that some measures that they farm see for ensure the protection of the rights of the human and of other rights are already Answers in of the conventions approved on the plan international , as the Declaration Universal of the rights of the man , the conventions of Geneva , the conventions of the Organization international of the work and the Convention of the UN Current to the rights of the child .
they looking that ensure colleague these conventions and statements whose the Canada is signatory .
the Senator Boudreau :
in this who has relates to the actions of someone society that this be , we must insist on the respect of some standards of conduct .
the allegations reviewers of serious questions , between other , if this society has respected or not these standards .
if a inquiry and a report indicate that she not the has not fact , the government instead of take of the measures against she .
I believe that he settled is all to fact legitimate for the shareholders of proceed of this way .
that some shareholders decision or not of give some guidelines to the board of Administration , the government of the Canada committed lead his inquiry until to the across and , account held of the findings of this inquiry , he instead of take the measures update against the society .
the Finance
the policy of the government on the increase of the rate of interest
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , the rate of interest have slowly increased these last months , to the time where the Bank of the Canada attempts of juguler the inflation .
he there asix years , the 23 September 1993 , the Globe The Mail reported that , to the say of the Leader of the Party Liberal , Jean tien , a government Liberal say to the Governor of the Bank of the Canada , John Crow , of give a more great attention to the creation of jobs , to the held of if let obs?der by the inflation .
when you him has asked this that he limited Mr. Crow not was not of agreed , Mr. tien has answered : to says you say that he is a official of the government . to
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , our government has always respected the role of the Governor of the Bank of the Canada .
this doing , we must congratulate the Governor Thiessen .
I think that he has succeeded of way remarkable to find the balance wanted .
then that the events in of other regions of the world if pr?cipitaient , he has been in legislation of maintain the Cape and , in fact , of create a unkind who has licences to our economy of know a good growth and of continue his growth to a pace remarkable .
our rate of growth has been almost without equivalent in not important which of the great country industrialized .
the Senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , I in conclude then that we should many believe the comments of the Prime Minister to the about of the Governor of the Bank of the Canada that those that he has made on the GST .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I not jouais not a role active to the then of the Governor Crow , but you establishes a balance of way different according the circumstances .
when he if is of determine if the rate of interest are to a level appropriate , that depends many of the unkind economic to this time - there .
if the economy if door well - this is - to - say that she is in full period of expansion - then , he is can - be appropriate of have a rate different of this that he would in period of recession .
the rate of growth real of the economy has been of almost of 4 per to the during of the four last trimestres and you provides maintain a strong growth .
the growth of the Canada , among the country of the G - 7 and in the world industrialis? , not is d?pass?e that by similar of the States - United .
honourable senators , I not can speak of the uniqueness appropriate of some rate of interest to some periods .
I suggests that to the Governor of the Bank of the Canada .
I think that he gets a work remarkable .
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the conditions of a next referendum Quebec - Position Position of the government
the hon. Jean - Claude Rivest :
honourable senators , what are the intentions of the government federal in this who respect the held of the next referendum to the Quebec - all in souhaitant that he not there in will not ?
is - this that the Minister could inform this House of the decisions who have been taken by the government federal to this regard ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , of any obviously , he not is not in the interest of the government of facilitate the held of a other referendum .
however , he there has some principles that quotes the majority of the Canadians therefore that the members of the government and , probably , the most of the senators .
first , if never he there has a referendum , he met insist on the lacked .
the lacked will exig?e for the question to ask also well that for the results of the referendum .
in fact , this opinion represents a part extremely important of the decision .
the other principle on which the most of the Canadians are of agreed - and this is a part of the Position dugouvernement - , this is that the Parliament of the Canada must have his word to say to the regard of this question .
the separation not needy be the question exclusive of a province .
this is a question who interest the senators and of other parliamentarians .
the mechanisms correct of application of these principles doing currently the subject of a debate .
however , we can highlight that , first , the lacked is essential and , second , the separation is the case of the Parliament of the Canada and of the Canadians , and not of a only province .
the Senator Rivest :
when the Minister we evidence that the Parliament of the Canada must be List , means - he say the House of the Commons and the Senate ?
in his spirit and in extend of the government , is - this that the lead of the government federal is in the words of the process referendum him - even , as the lacked of the question and the majority required ?
what is the notice of the Minister ?
the Senator Boudreau :
the honourable senators are invited to comment their positions , and this will of elsewhere a part important of the process .
the Court Supreme has said without doubt that the problems of lacked , regarding the question and the results , interested the government federal and all the governments provincial .
the Senator Rivest :
to the origin , in the drafting or the formulation of the question therefore that in the majority who , report , could be necessary .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , in the two case without doubt , the lacked is important .
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I hear someone something of deed .
the Minister , to the behalf of the government , we said that the Parliament of the Canada will his word to say in the formulation of the question and in the determination of the percentage of the Senators .
in fact , the two Houses of the Parliament features to the process referendum if the Quebec wants of hold a referendum .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the hon. Leader of the Opposition widening a little too the scope of my comments .
I have said that the government of the Canada must participate to the process as the has draws the Court Supreme .
when I say to the government of the Canada to , that includes also the Senate .
further to the lacked , I believe that the government of the Canada and the province in because news of the discussions .
in fact , of the governments of other provinces not directly in because could participate to the discussions .
the nature specific of this process will determined to the during of the weeks and of the months to come .
for the time , I not if not prepared to describe in detail the nature exactly of this participation .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
I specific respectfully that the Court Supreme of the Canada not has not ordered to the government of the Canada of do what that this be and that she not has not realized of judgment .
she has given a opinion transmission well beyond - beyond of the three questions CTAISB in the referred of the government of the Canada .
the Minister point here a policy government who has fact the subject of discussions and who remains cause .
this that I hear , this is that you can include , in a some legislation , a intervention Parliamentary and government in the process preparatory to the referendum on the future of the Quebec , be to the within of the Confederation , be to the outside of similar - side , before the held of this referendum if never he has held .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I can ensure to the hon. Senator that , when you prepare the held of a referendum , the government of the Canada not remain not inactif without participate to the process or comment the nature of the question .
the Defence national
the narrower white of 1994 - Position policy of the government
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the book white on the Defence of 1994 rest he the taken of Position clear of the government by report to the questions regarding the Defence ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , if the Senator means obtain confirmation that some elements special if day still in the policy of the government , I me bring a happy of obtain for him this information .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , to the namely of my Leader , I read in the statement brief that some changes concerning to the policy of Defence of the Canada are fellow inaper?ues .
I must say , in any humility , that I me interest of enough almost to this policy .
the Leader can consult his colleague to his left if he think that I plaisante .
suppose that of the changes have been concerning to the policy since his publication he there has five years .
I quote a committee learned of the page 50 of the document in question :
of the options and of the plans will therefore immediately d?finis in view of put in service of new aircraft to a price affordable , of here to the year 2 100,000 .
the year 2000 is in five weeks .
the book white has been released he there has approximately five years .
what is the Position of the Canada by report to the Alternative of the helicopters ?
the policy of our country has she changed ?
not is - this not there the Position of the government of the Canada ?
the Senator Boudreau :
further to the aircraft Sea King faced the hon. Senator if interest particularly , I not then that repeat this that I have said in the past .
they remain the priority statement a of the Minister of the Defence .
the Minister fact current the file , and we hope have of the announcements to do in a poised future .
the Alternative of the canoeing of helicopters Sea King
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , he there has someone time , a presentation of needs has been prepared .
in fact , this document had been prepared before the cancellation of the market of acquisition of the EH - EH .
we told now that this presentation of the needs has refait surface .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , we know , of after the information that the Senator Forrestall has distinct to the attention of the Senate , that the things have boug? in the program of Alternative of the Sea King .
that testimony still , if he the needed , of the fact that the Minister of the Defence confer a high priority to this question and that he obey a decision clear soon that possible .
as I the have already said , I bring know the decision to the Senate soon that I the speak .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , the period of the questions of 30 minutes is now completed .
the leave is - she granted of continue , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the former Veterans
the study on the institutions of health - Conformity influence of the report of the under - Committee of the Senate
the hon. Consiglio Di Nino :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
more earlier this year , the Committee Senate Standing of the former Veterans has product a report startling on the health of the former Veterans .
this report has been laughed and seconded by the honourable senators , well course , but also by of the persons foreign to the Senate .
we believe now know Mr. Baker , the Minister of the Affairs Veterans , if furthered to / a study similar on the even about .
is - this there a mirrors of the opinion that the Minister has of the excellent work fact by the Committee Senate or is - this all simply that his Department has too of money and means vigorous a study who has already been made for literally the money that the taxpayers have incomes win ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Minister knows very well that the Committee Senate fact of the good work .
you can assume that the report of the Senate will part of the documents on capably he fondera the decisions that he need take .
of any obviously , he Justice necessary of ask to his Department of do a new study , but I not think not that he whatsoever in conclude that he not confer no value to the work fact by the Senate .
the Senator Di Nino :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate give to hear that the Minister Baker has can - be seen the report of the Senate .
the has he seen , yes or not ? If he not the has not seen , the Leader of the government to the Senate could - he him in do bringing copy soon tomorrow morning ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , he is obvious that I speak of the question to the Minister Baker .
if he not has not still copy of the report , I him in remettrai a to the first opportunity .
the Affairs foreign
the Kosovo - Conformity assistance government
the hon. Nicholas W . Taylor :
honourable senators , I have a question to ask to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
this will soon the Winter to the Kosovo , as here of elsewhere .
we have spent of the hundreds of million of $ to destroy the superstructure of the Kosovo .
the hunger , the cold and the lack of electrical threaten of many persons .
that fact the government Canadian for help to provide food and warmth to the two camps who if are contrary in this part troubl?e of the world ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the government Canadian if is committed to provide of the assistance as economic that humanitarian to the Kosovo .
in fact , the assistance announced recently totalise someone 180 million of $ .
the 30 October , you has announced that a amount of 65 million of $ would lib?r?e by the through of the CIDA , dont35 million for the assistance humanitarian , 10 million for the assistance economic and 20 million for the pacification and the increase of emergency .
the 1 November , you has still announced a assistance Supplementary of 112 million of $ , whose 40 million of the CIDA , 15 million for the assistance economic , 25 million by the through of the CIDA for create a environment course and governance the peace , 20 million for the increase of the community , et12 million for the program Canadian of support to the training regional .
finally , the 17 November , you has announced 3,7 million of $ additional for the assistance humanitarian and economic and for the Organization international for the migrations .
we suivrons the situation of almost .
the Senator Taylor :
honourable senators , the government expeditiously he to send a part of our surplus food , for capably our farmers not touch not a compensation enough , to of the regions of the world who in have a more great need that we ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , to my knowledge , that not fact part of no of the plans existing that I have whereas .
however , I meantime certainly the question to the Minister .
the Program of Exchange of pages with the House of the Commons
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , I like add the welcome to a page of the House of the Commons who involved to a Exchange with the Senate .
she if Order Cynara Corbin .
she is placed of Dollard - Peoples - Ormeaux , to the Quebec , and studying in criminology to the Faculty of the Science Social of the University of Ottawa .
Order OF orders
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Kirby , seconded by the hon. Senator Lewis , seconded to the second Reading of the bill of bill C - 6 , Act designed to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of means electronic for communicate or registering of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the Instruments regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws .
the hon. Wilbert J . Keon :
honourable senators , I like advantage of the opportunity for do few brief comments on the bill of bill C - 6 .
this is a bill of bill extremely necessary that I support with enthusiasm , all in having few reserves .
I hostility therefore the need of do few brief comments on the bill of bill before that he be referred to a Committee .
since few years , the ability of the Canada of meet , of maintain , of fusionner , of transfer and of use of the information if is substantially percent .
he in result that of the information in all kind circulent in the country , and even across elsewhere on the planet , with more of freedom and of speed that never before .
certainly , the Families of our ability to this regard includes of the benefits , but he not in remains not least that the question of the cueillette , of the disclosure and of the use of the information raises a sure number of concerns Impediment to their uniqueness private and posterity .
honourable senators , to the obviously , the bill of bill C - 6 has for subject of protect the information personal collected by the sector private and , in fact , of we allow of catch the progress of the Technology .
since 1982 , the Act on the protection of the life privacy protects the information personal detainees by the government federal .
the provinces if are pourvues of Instruments similar .
however , he not in will not of even for the information detainees by the sector private .
to this regard , this bill of bill if is length fact expect .
we not must not act too soon , without have examined to extension all the impact of this initiative .
he not is not a field where the uniqueness private and posterity of the information detainees not is also important that extend of the health .
the perception and the concerns of the population in Equity of raising and of treatment of the information on the health are well known , but they deserve of be rappel?es to the seen of the questions that I wish raise to comments of the bill of bill .
in a Prime time , the patients believe that the information medical the regarding remain confidentiels .
then , they feel important of know what use their will allocated and to who these last will releases , and they not want particularly not that these information ensure released to of the third without that they not in ensure informed and without that they not shifted given their agreed .
finally , the patients could hesitate to promoting of the information the regarding to the professionals of the health if they if interrogent on the use or the disclosure desdites information .
to the subsection 2 ( 1 ) of the bill of bill , you committed by to Intelligence staff to all Intelligence regarding a individual identifiable , to the exclusion of the behalf and of the payments of a employee of a organization and of the directed and statement of telephone of his held of work .
by therefore , any information regarding his health or the treatment given to a patient identifiable and all Intelligence regarding the care of health easier by a professional of the health identifiable relieve , by definition , a uniqueness private .
honourable senators , the Association medical Canadian , the Association dental Canadian and of other associations representative the professionals of the health if are telling very agri by the impact negative that could have the bill of bill C - 6 in this who has relates to the information personal and to the other activities sensibles related to the system of health .
as the honourable senators the know , the bill of bill intended to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases to in the framework of activities trade to .
he not has not been designed in songeant to the system of health .
in effect , I believe that well of the people not have not thought to the system of health to the time of develop this bill of bill .
and this is this who fact that , in a some legislation - that he is difficult of determine - , the bill of bill could have a impact negative on the system of health .
even if the bill of bill is around on the activity commercial , he is obvious that you not needy establish a distinction such between similar - side and the activity linked to the care of health that the issues of health carelessly the subject of a treatment different of the other issues .
the subject , statement in words waves , of the part 1 of the bill of bill , therefore that his application to the professionals of the health working in a business whose the key service is the Benefit of care of health , have of what sort .
in what the bill of bill influera he on the treatment of the data resulting to the purposes of the medicine preventive , of the diagnosed medical and of the research medical , on the Benefit of the care and on the management of the services of care of health ?
honourable senators I specific .
I believe that he is imperative of clarify the bill of bill C - 6 for satisfy to four points important .
first , the bill of bill C - 6 must repeatedly a definition clear of the information faced if applies the right of the individual to the life privacy .
as I the have fact complying , he not specific not in what legislation these provisions if apply to the information medical .
by example , the notwithstanding 4 ( 1 ) has ) states that this bill of bill if applies to any organization to the regard of the information personal that she recueille , using or report in the framework of activities trade .
this who step a activity commercial not is not clear defined .
he seems that the you share of the principle that that excludes automatically the issues medical .
however , where finit the activity commercial and where start the care of health , that not is not clear of the all .
in addition , he not there has no line Director divesting the flow of the information medical between the institution of health and the institution commercial .
second , the bill of bill C - 6 not protects not the information medical .
of the rules must be completed in this who respect the information medical order of hold account of their nature special .
in particular , the bill of bill must be clarifi? and amended order of include , in this who respect the information medical , of the rules specific who link the focus on the protection of the right to the life privacy and who garantiront that the information medical not ensure releases that on a basic selective and under the control and with the consent informed of the patient .
in addition , any definition linked to the raising and to the use of the information medical should include of the information identifiables , of the information without link allowing of identify the patient , of the information anonymes and any combination of these types of information .
of more , I like do pointed that a recent report of the Council Advisory of the information on the health has clear underlined that any legislation legislative having relates to the respect of the life privacy and to the protection of the information on the health to should also include of the provisions clear prevented the use commercial school of the information on the health . to
third , not only the bill of bill C - 6 should include of the provisions grievous for the information on the health , but he is also important that these provisions ensure colleague also to the sectors public and private .
I recommends that these provisions ensure Italiano on the framework that provides the Code of protection of the information personal on the health articulate and adopted by the Association medical Canadian .
this Code could Establishing the basic of the bill gouvernant the raising , the use and the disclosure of the information on the health .
fourth , the part 2 of the bill of bill C - 6 not specific not to what purposes the data electronic related to the care of health and to the issues medical could be used .
of more , he not there currently no rule , this who suggests the door met to all sorts of abuse .
honourable senators , I request your support order of ensure to this that these concerns ensure settled before that the bill of bill C - 6 not continue his during .
the government has the opportunity , even the obligation , of give to the Canadians of solid rights in Equity of respect of the life privacy relatively to the information on the health .
in even time , he is of a interest vital of protect the ability of transfer of the data to of the purposes of care of health legitimate and of encourage a better management and integration of our system of care of health .
of this fact , the bill of bill C - 6 is a legislation legislative important and necessary .
he is however essential that we veillions to this that she changing effectively to the concerns address by the members of the community of the care of health .
I believe therefore that we should try of help the government to the Committee in Dolly of the changes to this bill of bill , this who in limited a legislation legislative still better .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . )
bill of bill of 99 on the implementation in implement of conventions tax
second Reading - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Hervieux - Hervieux , C , seconded by the hon. Senator Robichaud , C ( Conformity Acadie - graduated ) , that the bill therein S - 3 , Act rigour in implement a agreed , of the conventions and of the protocoles conclude between the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzb?kistan , the Syria , the Japan and the Luxembourg , in view of avoid the duplicates Socialist and of prevent the evasion tax in Equity of taxes on the income , be read a second time .
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
I wish however to attention to the honourable senators a country described by this treaty and whose the behaviour raises of the questions regarding the relevance for the Canada of maintain of the links with him .
by therefore , I hope that tomorrow or when the bill of bill will before the Committee of the Banking , he there will there of the officials senior of the Affairs foreign in legislation of better answer to the questions regarding the country in because .
the country whose I talking is the Ouzb?kistan , a of the ancient republics encroachment in Asia core .
in a recent release in date of the 20 October , the Brethour Zinn AsiaWatch :
... documente regardless a profile of arrest policy , of detention and of harassment of the members of the families of activists political and of dissidents church to the during of the six last months .
he there has also many of evidence cr?dibles according expelling the police admit regularly of small amount of drug or of Turkey on of the persons that she touch for their stripes political or religious .
the steering executive of the Brethour Zinn AsiaWatch for the Europe and the Asia core has said :
the government of the Ouzb?kistan claims if prepare to hold of the election free and fair all in loyalists the members of the families of the Opposition on the verrous and in if d?barrassant of the key .
this not is not there a way of achieve the democracy .
in a other release dissemination the even day , the Brethour Zinn AsiaWatch has said :
the schools and the universities of the Ouzb?kistan deny of open their doors to the musulmans Authorize the barbe and to the women Authorize the chador .
according this organization :
the government of the Ouzb?kistan door injured of across to the freedom religious .
the expulsion of students musulmans is a other aspect of this campaign .
as if that not was not enough , the government of the Canada , in his own note explicative regarding the bill of bill , said that :
he not is not rare that the major opposed and the members of their family ensure detainees and tortur?s .
the trade commercial if are ?lev?s? 18 million of $ in 1988 .
the Canada not has fact no Investment majeur in this country .
no company Canadian not fact of work of exploitation oil or mining , this who seems be the main attractions of this country .
those who there have thought underline that this is primarily the environment commercial ouzbek who the keeps to the gap .
always according the notes of information , the companies Canadian of high Technology who have realized of the sales in Ouzb?kistan have had many of difficulty to do slipping the earners foreign of this country .
according the data available , he seems that this not be not the a of the regions the more prometteuses for the investors Canadian .
each time that he has had case to a regime r?pressif not having not the intention of favouring a minimum of democracy , the Canada has always took Position , be by of the sanctions or by a boycottage whatever .
since he there has well little of commitment between the Ouzb?kistan and the Canada , I not see not why we should adopt a such treaty to the hour current .
I hope that the Committee will in legislation of prove the contrary or to all the least that he if tighten on the question because , to least that you me proves the need of a such treaty for the protection of a good number of Canadians on the plan of the taxes , by example , I believe that he would appropriate of propose a amendment who retrancherait the treaty of the bill of bill and the garderait to the gap also long that necessary .
can - be the regime ouzbek imagine he that the Canada is really seriously when he promotes the rights of the human and the democracy and that he not fact not that repeat the words of the other .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , her the Senator Hervieux - Hervieux is healthy today today and this is she who has presented this bill of bill .
I not know not if of other senators have someone something to say to this about .
if this is the case , I not like not me there against .
however , if no other Senator not wishes take the speak , I move of refer the bill of bill to the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade .
the hon. Consiglio Di Nino :
then - I ask a question ?
we have received of many bills of laws of this nature .
I me remind that he there has few months to worthy , we have been before of a bill of bill similar who has been referred to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
a sure number of questions , separate of those of the Senator Staunton - Lynch , had also been raised then .
why this bill of bill will he referred to the Committee of the Banking to the held of the Committee of the Affairs foreign , as this was the case , he me seems , of bills of bill precedents on of the conventions tax ?
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
I believe that we contrevenons to the Rules , honourable senators .
his Hon. the Speaker Acting ( the hon. P . Derek Lewis ) :
before of address this point , we should adopt the bill of bill in second Reading .
the Senator Hays :
we should let the speak to the Leader Deputy of the Opposition .
the Senator Kinsella :
for streamline , I move the adjournment of the debate .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , order of clarify the situation of the questions whose this House is cases , with your leave , I will withdraw any motion that I chair could present during my intervention , who would brought referred of the bill of bill to the Committee .
therefore , we able do place to the motion of adjournment of the debate of the Senator Kinsella .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . )
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Vodrey , seconded by the hon. Senator Furey , seconded to the Adopted of a Adresse to His Excellency the Gouverneure general in response to the speech that contemporaries has sir during of the openness of the second session of the 30 - sixth Parliament . -
( 4e day of the resuming of the debate . )
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I have had until to now the happy - my faith , yes , the most of the time the happy - of hear 11 speech of the Throne , as to the Parliament provincial that here even , to the Senate .
that they shifted been plebiscite here or in my province native of the Manitoba , they affichaient all the even characteristic .
they were all a little waves .
he must understand that , of by their nature even , the speech of the Throne are rather waves .
they are refreshed of talk words , but avares of details .
I have always ?prouv? a some compassion for the Gouverneurs broad and the lieutenants - Governors who must read these speech .
however , the present speech of the Throne me has profoundly damaged by places because that he establishes a new program , a program for the children .
he agreeable strong well that I talking of that today today because , as the has pointed Thursday last the Senator Callbeck , we have celebrated the Day national of the child Saturday last , the 20 November .
as the know the senators , in 1993 , the government federal has appropriately the 20 November Day national of the child order of Calgarians two events historic of the UN , to know the Adopted , the 20 November 1959 , of the Declaration of the rights of the child and the Adopted , the 20 November 1989 , of the Convention Current to the rights of the child .
the young of today today are the leaders of tomorrow .
for ensure to our children the better departure possible in the life , we must invest now in the future , in their future .
the experiences and the research scientific indicate that the Prime development of a child submit his success to the age adulthood .
to the below of the new millennium , we must see to this that our children persons the Paralympians and the benefits necessary for that our society be Yukoners and prosperous .
the children have need of our love , of our support and of our expressions , but they have also need of opportunities for learn .
their needs basic must be satisfied .
more earlier this after - afternoon , I lisais a speech of the Senator Gill on the aboriginal to the Canada .
this is tragic , but the needs basic of the children aboriginal are rarely satisfied .
in 1989 , all the parties represented to the House of the Commons have adopted a resolution designed the Elimination of the poverty home the children before the year 2000 .
as the Senator Cohen the knows , we are in November 99 and , unfortunately , we have took of the backsliding by report to 1989 .
however , I hope that , through to this speech of the Throne and to the budget who if in just , the legislators able do of the progress to this regard .
of any obviously , we not modernized not our objective for the year 2000 , but he must hope that we entamerons the millennium of the good foot .
the poverty affects all the aspects of the development of a child , also well to short that to long term .
that starts in the within of the mother , with a bad nutrition , and if continues all to the long of the years of training , affectant all the aspects of the growth and nuisant to the success .
you not can if expect to this that a child whose the needs basic - food , housing and Clothing documentation - not are not satisfied can learn and if ?panouir .
of more in more , the programs of assistance social of the provinces sponsored the beneficiaries across to the Canada to accept of the work paid .
I not me objects not to this that the people perform a work who their agreeable .
I believe that that is beneficial for the image of itself and for his own development .
however , if , in Lightkeepers the people to work , we not we pr?occupons not of the care to give to the children , who will winner ?
I know who will losing .
the children will losers .
these families initiatives 17,500 the statistics and the recipients social ship of the workers terror .
in our planning , we must absolutely give the priority to the quality of the care to give to these children .
nowhere share to the Canada the salary minimum not is enough high for allow even to those who have a employment to time full of relentless to the poverty .
to Winnipeg , in 99 , according a report recent of the Council national of the well - be social , a parent only who has a only child should work 80 p.m. by week for reach to the below of the poverty if he has a employment paid to the salary minimum .
to Winnipeg , for a family who account two parents and two children , he should 118 p.m. of work by week for reach to the below of poverty .
honourable senators , he not there has that 168 p.m. in a week .
the credit of tax for children , a wonderful program developed on foot by the government , has unfortunately been interpretation in some provinces as a system who their allowed of reduce the benefits of assistance social .
the program has therefore improved the fate of the poor who working , but he not has not increased the income of the recipients social .
the children have always need of their parents .
some of between we we asking even if our children adults not have not always need of we .
this is why of the programs as the Program of assistance pr?scolaire to the aboriginal , the Program Canadian of nutrition pr?natale and the Program of action community for the children have all been essential for look the bases of a widest development to long term home the children .
I have been very pleased of find in the speech of the Throne seven commitments to the about of the children : of the benefits more percentage for the cong?s of motherhood and parentaux , a agreed federal - provincial for better support the development of the young children , a increase of the income after tax of the families , of the sector of work more conviviaux for the families , including in the Administration public federal , the modernization of the right family , a third synthetic of funds important in the Benefit national for children and the strengthening of the opportunities of learning through to a expansion of Rescol .
honourable senators , the presentation budget not is not the hall , but , if I dentist Paul Martin to prepare his budget , the families poor who working number right to all the cuts of tax .
all these initiatives are urgently , honourable senators .
in particular , the speech of the Throne announced of the cong?s parentaux am?lior?s through to the extension of the period of the benefits parentales paid by the regime of insurance - employment .
we want can - be study of the changes in this sense to the regime of insurance - employment .
for the time , concentrons - we however on the cong?s parentaux .
he if is there of a initiative very positive , but I hope that , when government the examine , he incorporated account of the fact that the parents of today today are loans to share the responsibility .
these cong?s not are not offered only to the women .
the Fathers have a fortunate wonderful of advantage of the cong?s parentaux .
however , with the bill current on the insurance - employment , if the mother and the father wanted advantage of the break , each of the two would a period of Awaiting of two weeks .
this is unfortunate because that , personally , I like that more of Fathers Canadian taking the home in labour , even during of disappear periods .
personally , when I have should move six weeks to the Hospital to the time of the birth of my second child , the a?n?e not could not me visit and she and his father if are many rapproch?s because that this was particularly him who if agency of she .
the after - afternoon , when the chariot of friandises recovered , I achetais a bookshelf of chocolat for my daughter and I the him ?crivais a letter in makers , because she not had that three years , and I him groups contribute by his father , who is became his parent favourite during this period .
I not have known that a little after my return to the home that they mangeaient the bookshelf of chocolat together in our reads before the Tongues .
but what that he in be , to the during of this period particular of his life , my husband is became very Related to my daughter a?n?e and their collusive duration still today today .
the small boyhood is a period criticism for the good development of the child , as to short that to long term .
the children who have of the experiences positive to the during of their small boyhood cases better to the school , they have a better believe of them - same and they are better adapt?s to the life in society .
more later in their life , they have of best jobs , least of problems social and least of problems of health .
they are least evidence of have of the babies to the tumultuous , they breakfast least of drugs and they are least evidence of let in the crime .
that we surprend - he really ?
take the case of a small daughter or of a small star of five years typical who between to the tongue .
this is can - be his first or second experience of the school .
in the case of children of the class average , even of a family poor Telecommunication of Monde skills parentales - yes , he there in has - , when they informatics to the tongue , they competition their behalf , where they live , their statement of telephone , they too the alphabet , the converted and the figures .
these children are to a time criticism of the learning , the more important met the learning of the Reading .
Comparez that to the children who not familiar not the figures , or the alphabet , or the converted .
soon the departure , soon the beginning of the classes , a group of children is disadvantaged by report to a other .
this is why the intervention in the first boyhood is if important for that we can reversing the trend of the opportunities for these children - there .
according a study that I have unwilling recently , 28p. per of the boys Prime a behaviour antisocial concerning in tongue were offenders to the age of 13 years , 28p. per of between them !
this is why a program of action national for the children is if important .
the promise of the government of work with the provinces and the territories to the implementation in implement of a plan of action of here December 2000 for strengthen the development of the first boyhood is essential .
the program of action national for the children - a initiative federal , provincial and territorial - sharing number of objectives of the Day national of the child .
they designed the even message .
in working together , the Canadians can if ensure that all the children live in a climate of love and of understanding , that they ensure viewed as of the persons and that they shifted the opportunity of achieve their full potential when they will adults .
in the speech of the Throne is also announced trade Canada , a program designed to give to per 100,000 young each year the fortunate of live and of study in of other regions of the Canada .
what wonderful experience !
I am a better CIBC because that I have lived in several regions of the country , and I know that my children the are also because that they have lived also in several provinces and that they are capable of speak the two languages official of the Canada .
not forget not also the programs as Katimavik .
honourable senators , to the during of the ten next days , a group of these young we obey visit on the Hill , and I you invite to speak to some of between them .
his Hon. the Speaker Acting :
I am sorry of interrupt the hon. Senator , but his time of speak is expired .
the Senator Carstairs :
then - I have the leave of continue , honourable senators ?
his Hon. the Speaker Acting :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Carstairs :
thank , honourable senators .
these young who are Treaty by Katimavik not are not of the young very led 118.8 to go to the university .
this are of the young who not know not too this that they hand do .
however , I can you say , after the have met to the over of the years , that after a year to the within of the program Katimavik , this are of the young very led who have learned our two languages official , who have worked to of the bills of services community to the Canada and who have now of the bills for their future .
this is this that he must encourage to the Canada .
honourable senators , in the speech of the Throne , the government has also renewed his commitment of present to new a bill on the young Offenders .
in fact , the Minister of the Justice has already presented to new the bill of bill under the along C - 3 .
I will examine this bill of bill very carefully for ensure to this that we not hurt not too tougher .
let - me of quote a report of the 20 June 1995 of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional to the about of the bill of bill C - 37 , amend the Act on the young Offenders , part 1 :
several witnesses have continued that he needed contrebalancer the concerns legitimate of the public to the regard of the violence home the adolescents with of the information correct on the rate of crime and on the operating of the system of justice for the young .
the Committee believes that or the young or the great public not have interest to this that ensure v?hicul?es of the inexactitudes on the fr?quence of the crimes with violence committed by of the adolescents of even that on the range of the actions .
these bigotry offensive can uncontroversial of the fears not substance and watch the population to require of the measures of more in more punitives , little evidence of do away the causes hands of the crimes with violence committed by of the young .
you committed constantly say that the rate of the crime home the young is to the increase - this is the refrain sir to the members Reform - , that the young are of more in more violent and that of the measures more strict if impose because that the bill current on the young Offenders is too low .
gold , honourable senators , according a recent publication of the Service Correctional of the Canada Authorize on of the data of the Centre Canadian of the statistics legal , in the together , the number of young who have been charged of a offence criminal and who have appeared before a court for adolescents has decreased between 1992 and 1997 .
when you consider the crimes violent committed by of the young to the wide national , you not follows that a lightly increase .
the transfers of young to the courts for adults not have or increased or decreased .
finally , the striking of the provisions to the regard of the young has increased ; contrary to the perception to the within of the population , the sentences Denmark to the young are far of be cl?mentes .
according a study that I have unwilling recently , the worthy average opportunity to a young having committed a crime was Superior to similar opportunity to a adulthood for the even offence .
gold , to the Manitoba , the three quarters of the members of bands not are not of the young , this are of the adults .
honourable senators , the Canada signal of the children in prison to a rate two time higher to extend profession in the most of the States of the States - United , who persons the rate of incarceration the more high of all the riel as that in this who respect the adults that the young .
in Denmark , he not there has that 10 boys seniors of least of 18 years in prison , and this , on a population of five million of population .
to the Canada , he there has 4 100,000 young in detention on a population of 31 million of population .
believes - you really that our young are six time and half more nasty that the young of Denmark ?
in Norway , he not there has more of prison for children .
honourable senators , of 30 to 70 per of the young Offenders are afflig?s of a type whatever of difficulty of learning .
to the held of durcir the legislation legislative regarding the young Offenders , we should appropriating of the resources designed to solve the problems of the persons in difficulty of learning during that they are young .
the research indicate that the children who benefit of care and of a education of high quality soon their young age are aged many least many that the other to be CANBAT to of the crimes and to of the actions of violence , that this be as victims or as perpetrators .
the Council national of prevention of the crime has recommended of lead the fight against the crime in giving in Prime held of good programs social for the children .
honourable senators , to the beginning of my remarks , I have mentioned that this was Saturday the tenth anniversary of the Adopted of the Convention of the Nations Nations Current to the rights of the child .
the convention treating of the rights of the children and of the young of least of 18 years .
she recognizes also the role important of the family in the education of the children .
before the convention of 1989 , in under of the right international , a child was considered as a subject referred he needed give of the care and of the protection .
the convention has amended this perception in grateful the rights of the child as human , and in him easier the right to the freedom of expression , of association , of meeting , of religion and of the life privacy .
the Canada fact the subject of criticism to the wide international since 1989 for have neglected of repeal the section 43 of the Code criminal , who between in conflict with the section 19 of the Convention of the Nations Nations .
in 1995 , the Committee of the rights of the child of the Nations Nations has recommended that the punishment punishment to the home or elsewhere ensure avenues and has asked that the Canada review the section 43 to the light of this recommendation .
I am d??ue of see that he not is not fact mention of the endangers of the section 43 in the speech of the Throne .
the media have announced yesterday that the Minister of the Justice appear this week of the changes to the Code criminal order of protect more the animals against the actions of violence and the abuse .
the changes are 118.8 to recognize in right that the animals not are not a well and that they exist in as that such .
the children are of the beings unique .
they have need of our love , of our support and , by - above all , of our advice .
the children have need of discipline , but he there has many of other ways of appeals a child that of approach to of the punishment punishment .
in reality , of the studies have revealed that the punishment punishment diminishing more , and not least , of violence .
the government if oriente in the good leadership .
any legislation who intended to protect our children and to encourage their full healthy and the too of their potential is a legislation positive .
as a good teacher , I will hold a increased of notes to this about .
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
I have heard speak of the measures that the government claims take for improve the life of the aboriginal , of the women and of the Canadians disabilities , but I have had fine listen the more carefully possible , I not have nothing heard to the about of the fourth group : extend of the Canadians owned to a minority visible .
this is as if we were hearted of the planet , of the least the planet such that the government present the contemplated .
I not have however not been surprised .
the minorities visible not have never really figur? in the priorities of the government .
we not do not part of this that the Prime Minister Order pompeusement the vision Liberal of the new millennium .
I think that that if explain by the fact that , contrary to the women , we not attirons not the attention of the simple fact of our great number .
we not helps not not more of feelings of culpability as the persons disabilities .
we not are not the point of mire of the media as the aboriginal .
to the held of that , he seems that we are simply there in as that black , Chinese , Vietnamiens , Indian of the Indes orientales , Pakistanais , Nig?rians , S?n?galais , voters , Libanais , Nicaraguayens , Boliviens , and cetera .
we sober a group h?t?rog?ne of individuals became of all the regions of the world .
we sober a group of individuals among capably good number struggle for if adapt to their new land of reaction while that of many other are here since a century or more ; we estate all to of the minorities who trying of overcome the various forms of racism , of partisanship and of intolerance experienced they doing opposite in their daily .
he seems that no of between we not is dignified of a attention particular or not seems deserve the less Gallery of interest or of consideration of the share of the government .
met given this indifference inexplicable and inexcusable , he is of my duty of take the speak in this chamber today today .
he has left a part small but Maritimer of our community not Operating and without Senators .
I rise therefore the speak , during a short time , order of speak of the case of the minorities visible before the Senate .
honourable senators , I like remind to the government that the members of the minorities visible are also of the citizens of our wonderful country .
in despite of the difference of the colour of their peau , of the form of their eyes , of their focus or of their customs , they doing part integral of our great family Canadian .
he not must not the overlooked or their miss of ways , as you the has clearly fact in the speech of the Throne .
according the last surveys , 32p. per of the population of Toronto are of the members of minorities visible , all as 31p. per of the population of Vancouver , 15 per of the population of Calgary , 12 per of the population of Montreal and 7 per of the population of Halifax .
to the during of the next years , these figures hand still increase .
statistics Canada provides that he there will someone 7 million of members of minorities visible to the Canada in 2016 .
if such is the case , they commit 20 per of the population Canadian .
in despite of their number always growing , the members of the minorities visible are widely held to the gap of the flot Main of the society .
honourable senators , look around of you .
the minorities visible represent 11 per of our population .
represent - they 11 per of the Senate or of the House of the Commons ?
and that in is - he in the forces Armed , the Order judicial or the industry bancaire ?
how of chairmen of university know - you who ensure members of minorities visible ?
how if fact - he that the CBC not seems not find of members of minorities visible for take share to his many galleries of discussion and to his many shows of expert .
how that if fact - he , in effect ?
the exclusion of members of minorities visible of their fair share of the jobs is a phenomenon who affects all the sectors of our society .
the service public of the Canada in is a excellent example .
the Department of the Defence national account least of 500 members of minorities visible on a total de17 100,000 employees civilians , and the Service Correctional of the Canada in account to worthy 300 among his 12 100,000 employees .
the situation is still more disgraceful to the echelons senior .
honourable senators , least of 3 per of the managers of the service public of the Canada are members of minorities visible .
you me said that , to the exception of the persons appointments by ascertain , he not there has , in any the service public , no under - Minister member of a minority visible .
in fact , the last would took his retirement he there has two decades !
that you there think .
he there has surely more of per under - ministers in the service public , and they are all of race unequal !
words said , no of the more of 9 100,000 members of minorities visible that I have whereas he there has a moment not diminish the qualities considered for become under - Minister .
not a only of between them not diminish the instructed , the experience and the know - do for exercise these duties .
this is difficult to believe !
however , this not is not a question of time ; this is a question of attitude .
be the leaders of the service public of the Canada believe in the equity in Equity of employment , be they not there believe not .
well fair , met given their record , I not think not that they there believe .
honourable senators , the service public not is not the only to refuse of open his doors to the members of minorities visible .
the even situation Jr. in our own court .
take a minute for reflect to the last time where we have seen a employee of the Senate who knowing part of a minority visible .
if you are as me , this minute could in become two or three .
the fact is that , according the office of the Clerk , only 1,2p. per of the employees of the Senate are members of minorities visible .
that represents a total of six persons on 138,481 employees , in a institution who is supposed help to give the example to of other .
I refers these two institutions as examples , but he there in has well of other .
the real problem , according me , this is that in not seize not , you heritage the idea that he not is not necessary of act .
in of other words , you if said that if you not fact nothing , the problem dispara?tra of him - even .
honourable senators , we have already seen , with the referendum to the Quebec and today today , with the fishing on the Coast is , that a such approach not led that to of the problems .
you refuses to the minorities visible of the opportunities fair in Equity of employment .
we should in speak , obtain the opinion of the involved and find of the ways of overcome the problem .
argue that that not there not not rule nothing ; yet , this is exactly this that we do .
the even something if product in the field of the relations Knee .
the Canadians unhappy to believe to wrong that they live in a country more compassionate .
he not there has not of ?meutes Knee here .
the assassins not abattent not of the leaders of the communities minority .
the black not are not fought to death or almost by of the bands of policiers the long of a road or agress?s sexually in the wards of bain of the positions of police .
all the world if committed and he there has of the space for all .
the only problem with that , this is that this not is not true .
the Canada not is not a Arcadie of grant era modern ; this not is not true not more that all the Canadians unhappy their next .
in fact , very often , the love fact place to the animosity , to the confidence , to the fear and to the haine , yes , the haine .
of the crimes led by the haine are committed to the Canada , even if , fortunately , this not is not to the even wide that to the States - United . Quoi that he in be , that if product .
she has been battue and noy?e .
why ?
because that she was member of a minority visible .
we have of the groups sectaires to the Canada also : the Ku Klux Klan , the White Power Canada , the Nationalist Party of Canada and the Heritage Front .
the newspapers and the television not speak virtually not of the question .
why ?
because that the majority of the Canadians not are not involved .
for the white , the equity in Equity of employment , the racism and the crimes led by the haine are of the questions intellectuelles rather that practices and that if includes .
in effect , the white are rarely of the targets .
honourable senators , the minorities visible not dollar not a treatment Special .
they not looking not of seekers who are refus?es to of other .
they want work , have of the jobs r?mun?rateurs , rise their children in a environment course , their give the possible of have a life healthy and prosperous , as all the world .
as the other , they want be accepted for this that they are and that the you not du not account of their country of origin or of the colour of their peau .
we have recognize fact enough of progress these past decades for that that be possible .
can - be am - I still there too optimism .
honourable senators , I have fact to the beginning of the year a speech on the situation of the community black to the Canada .
in my remarks , I have said that I doutais strong that we arrivions really to the equality of my alive .
after this speech , someone a is came me ask why I continuais to defend my ideas when , in my visitors within , I not thought not that the things lines change .
I have answered that I not had not really the choice .
this is a responsibility that I accept welcome in despite of the reserves that I can have .
honourable senators , that he me be licences of have few reserves .
let - me of in douter .
I follows that of the stereotypes negative remain to this day in the society Canadian and in the media to the regard of the minorities visible .
the access to some jobs rest subrepticement deduct .
the members of the minorities visible continue of if do deal of n?gres , of chinetoques , of sleazy Pakistanais , and of asiates .
I not am therefore not sure that the things shifted indeed many changed .
the response not is not in a bill of bill - this is obvious .
we have the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms , the Act Canadian on the rights of the human and the Act on the citizenship Canadian .
yet , the prejudice and the racism remain .
the Reform argue senior and strong that the minorities visible should be rel?gu?es to the front - plan , hides .
the Administration public federal employ many too little of minorities visible , to the argument that you not needy fairer a bill of this dispute .
of the members of groups sectaires lingering regularly of the documents CAIP seconded to uncontroversial the intolerance racial and ethnic , the violence and well of other feelings hostile .
honourable senators , the real solution to the problem of the racism and of the prejudice ahead in the education and the trade .
the people must learn to if know .
they must reliance their anxieties versus .
for that , he their must of the information .
this is the information who allows of eliminate the insinuations and the stereotypes .
she establishes of the links between the members of the community and promote a better understanding .
however , the information to she only not can resolve all the problems .
he must there have a commitment .
he must that all ensure convinced that the minorities visible have right to all the benefits of the citizenship .
this is that who is to the heart of the problem .
I believe that he works in part to the government federal of promote this commitment .
a part of his responsibility introducing to we driver , in as that country , toward the harmony and the respect hills .
this is to the government of tracer the relative to follow .
however , he not the fact not .
the Prime Minister and his cabinet have decided of not not hold account of the question of the minorities visible .
they doing as if she not properly not .
his Hon. the Speaker Acting :
honourable senators , I regret of duty interrupt the hon. Senator , but his time of speak is expired .
would - he the leave of continue ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Oliver :
thank , honourable senators .
their problems not deserve not our attention .
find of the solutions for eliminate the racism , the in?galit?s and the discrimination , this not is not a priority national .
of any obviously , I not can be of agreed with this attitude , and this is this Opposition who me value to speak to the Senate today today .
in ending , honourable senators , I pretend that if the government not means not if attack to this question , we could the do here .
seen the diversity of the knowledge and the rich experience of the senators , I am satisfied that a debate on the place of the minorities visible to the Canada current held to of asset evidence .
if we pocket then continue the study of the question , a under - Committee of the Committee of the Affairs Social could be formed to this effect .
his mandate could repeatedly a tour of the country during which he recueillerait and compilerait the opinions the more to day on the employment to the within of the minorities visible .
you could also ably a Committee Joint of the House of the Commons and of the Senate for ensure a followed to the findings of the Committee Daudlin of 1984 .
you you recall that this Committee had examined the participation of the minorities visible to the life of the society Canadian .
what that be the road emprunt?e , honourable senators , we not must not follow the example of the government in sitting nothing .
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I wish to congratulate the senators who have presented and seconded the motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne because they have all two spoke with eloquence to the behalf of their provinces and regions .
the funding of the research and the method earlier for ensure this funding can have a impact on the vitality even of a country and determine the future of his economy and of his system of health , therefore that the well - be of his citizens .
well that I respectful satisfied of the speech of the Throne , I wish to comment briefly a of his flaws .
this is this that the price Nobel John Polanyi called the to marketing of the science to .
during of a recent remarks before the Corporation Royal , he has criticized this trend in forming that she crumbling the universities Canadian and value the more brilliant scientific of the country to if forced .
he would could add that this trend contributes also to the collapse of the service public who was , to a time given , more centr?e on the better interest of the consumers and of the population that on the concerns of the companies .
the laureate of the price Nobel if in is took to the policy of funding of the research of the governments federal and provincial , who have fact of the universities of the branches of the industry .
the Canada is went too far , has he said , in bilious the research industrialis?e to the expense of the research syst?mique or fundamental .
the drain to the States - United of scientific and of researchers of Prime plan is also the result , of the least in part , of this policy little preview because , enough strangely , the States - United if are held to distance of this industrialisation of the research .
to the States - United , only 6 per of the research university are underfunded by the sector private .
I hope that the initiative announced in the speech of the Throne to the regard of the Instituts of research in health saved a change of the values on this point .
the farmers have 14.6 this year of the Hempline records or almost .
in Saskatchewan only , they have product 27,8 million of tonnes of grain , of ol?agineux and of crops special .
and yet , their commuting - lifeline and their way of life are threatened in part if totally because that the grants federal have been reduced to a U.S.A. of this that the governments European and American limited to their own producers c?r?aliers .
the Canada not subventionne not these producers agricultural .
if the silence of the speech of the Throne was cruel , the response of the government to the crisis in the weeks who have followed ?voquait the to silence of the agneaux to .
the first ministers of the Manitoba and of the Saskatchewan , who are came to Ottawa , have been sommairement removed .
the Minister federal of the Agriculture has announced that a amount Supplementary of 170 million of $ would added to the Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural , phase called ACRA .
this figure represents least of 15 per of this that the first ministers of the Manitoba and of the Saskatchewan sheet necessary .
this spring , the government intrinsic has improve 79 million of $ for come in assistance to the farmers victims of floods .
he said now that he not is not in legislation of confidence his quote - share .
the Saskatchewan find also the arrangement impraticable and expeditiously to if withdraw of the program ACRA .
even if the provinces could contributing still more , the problem , this is that to the obviously , the program ACRA is far of be to the live .
in date of the 25 October , the program not had d?bours? that 227 million of $ , be least of 13 per of this that the Minister identifies of legislation of assistance of 1,78 billion of $ .
as he has been already mentioned in this chamber , more of the half of the requests made by the population of the Manitoba and of the Saskatchewan have been rejected .
following this that Morris Dorasch said to this comments in Agri - Nucleonics :
when he pays , the program ACRA offer a funding to the bad persons , for the bad reasons and of the bad way .
I like repeating a point who has been raised to the during of the debate of emergency .
the farmers must obtain of the money before No .
if they not in seniors not , they not will not in legislation of ensemencer to the spring .
this is also simple that that .
you can their offer of the assistance of all sorts of ways , that this be by the account of the income net , the taxes or the reduction legislative of the rates of transportation that the farmers must pay and who should , of after of the studies , be reduced of to the least 5 $ the tonne .
the Minister of the Finance we has confirmed that the money not lack not .
the problem if find therefore to the level of the showing policy .
this is why the agencies of the Western trying of persuade the Prime Minister of come see by him - even the consequences of this crisis in skill visit to the sectors agricultural of the Western .
he has right to the even protection of the share of the government of the Canada that the other producers seniors in of other country with capably he is in competition .
today today , our producers of Wheat seniors least of the third of the grants whose entitlements their competitors in Europe .
the Leader of the government to the Senate has criticized to the provinces of refuse of contributing more to the program ACRA .
I must do pointed that to the States - United also well that in Europe , this is the level the more high of government who funding the grants .
no state American not offer of programs of grants agricultural who vaillent the worthy of be whereas .
the superbudget of the Union European is extend who if applies to the grants agricultural .
of the thousands of farmers and their families are forced of leave the land , and you we said that this is the consequential inexorable of the progress technologique , but the industrialisation in this sector not is not inexorable and not step not a progress .
the time is can - be came for the farmers of express their own message durum .
buy of the intrants who doing increase the production and the revenues of the Canada in earners foreign through to the exports , but not the income net of the farmers , this is a bad case who not confer no value to the initiatives and to the travail of the farmers .
the problem of the family agricultural is summary in a section that I have received recently of my intr?pide Leader .
I like in read a from :
until to all recently , the most of the people in the world were nourris by the grandchildren farmers who head various foods of basic for trigger the communities local and the markets local .
but with the rules of the WTO , the grandchildren farmers unskilled .
in a great part of the world ( there including to the States - United ) , of the companies international have took in labour of other elements of the agriculture and use many of products chemical and now the biotechnologie .
the small hailed have yielding the place to of immense rivers of monocultures of luxury presided to the export .
and all this transportation of substantially food d?t?riore the environment .
all this transportation of foods by dock , by truck or by flying to the four across of the planet fact increase the consumption of energy , worsening the pollution of the Oceans and of the atmosphere and contributes to the changes El [ ... [ .
he must more of emballages , this who affects a more great exploitation of the Forestry .
he must of new infrastructure .
and , of any way , the foods products industriellement are least shaped , concepts of the products chemical who polluent the soil and the water and pose of the problems of health public .
by therefore , not not protect the exploitation agricultural , this is accommodating a resources valuable .
of elsewhere , the exploitation agricultural not is more small .
to the Canada , she can do of 10 100,000 to 20 100,000 hectares .
the Senator Carstairs has spoke with many of eloquence of the Program of action national for the children and of the importance of the education in the small boyhood .
I him pretend simply that , if she means propose a new time a amendment to the Code criminal on the punishment punishment , I happy pleased of support a such amendment .
when I toeing to the board school , to the Manitoba , we have eliminated these punishment in the regulation .
let - me of say a word to the about of other elements of the program who not if concr?tiseront can - be not quickly .
therefore , in June 1997 and during the campaign election , he has been said that a new government Liberal ?tablirait of the centres of excellence for ensure the well - be of the children and d?bloquerait a funding of 20 million of $ on five years .
a Diori of months more later , no centre not has still been developed on foot .
the question of the garderies is still more important .
I like speak of two reports recent for we remind why we not must not overlooked the services of Access and why we have need of a system national .
the Prime , and the Senator Carstairs there has fact referring , this are the new evidence neuroscientifiques who consequences that the three first years of life of the child have of the impact on his ability of learning , his behaviour and his health during any his life .
not not give to the child a good departure in the life , this is this who creates the real deficit of Equity grise to the Canada , not the drain of the drain .
second , the report fact equally that the investment public in the programs if ability to the very young children are also important that the investment in the education resource , school and Superior and in the health .
third , the report establishes that the communities cases very effectively to integrate the programs provincial and federal to the level local .
this report , as many of other before him , remind to the leaders political that , if they n?gligent the services of Access , they the doing to the risks of the society .
he request to the government federal of investir3,5 billion of $ in a system national of garderies of quality and affordable in partnership with the parents and the governments provincial and territorial .
that update a such Investment ?
according the report :
of many programs social argue the families , but the services of Access constitute the armature of all these programs .
the services of Access are the program who recoupe to the time the security of the income and the services .
you has demonstrated to numerous occasions that the services of Access are the part essential of the participation of the parents , particularly of the mothers , to the population active .
the improvement of the participation of the mothers to the population active is essential if the you means reduce the poverty Propaganda .
Michael McCracken , of Infometrica , is went still more far and has seemed the number of jobs Brunswicker be created .
a reduction of a billion of $ of the taxes on the income of the special characterized approximativement 9 100,000 jobs to the cost of 96 100,000 $ by employment .
a billion of $ spent to the services of Access characterized 46 100,000 jobs to a cost of 8 slightly $ by employment .
this is of elsewhere a calculating enough sad because that he shows that the workers of garderies not earn not enough sir .
however , this are there of the facts bruts .
the journalist Linda McQuaig we said that Health Canada has machinery a bill of program national of garderies .
however , he seems that the government of the Canada not fail not this program with many of force and that he not in fact not the promotion .
of more , he not is not fact mention in the speech of the Throne of the protection of the health of the children against the threats Environmental .
let - me of you give a example .
we know that the incin?rateurs municipal , some industries and the people who doing br?ler of the lumber treaty ?mettent of the dioxines in the environment .
we know that of the amounts of this substance arsenal very Unleash if find in our foods .
then still , you in find in the milk maternel to of the levels forty time senior to the concentration in a steak .
a opportunity in gold if is introduced , course , to the during of the debate on the bill of bill C - 32 , for ensure to this that the dioxines ensure phase bannies and convince the municipalities , the governments provincial and the businesses of amend their process equity .
the government has also missed the opportunity of do evidence of leadership in n?gociant a treaty international of ban of the dioxines order that the Canadians ensure protected against the transportation atmosph?rique on of long disappear of the dioxines and of other products chemical works .
however , he not is not too later - you can always act .
in the speech of the Throne , he is said that of the measures will taken on the pesticides .
these measures if doing expect since long , because he there now someone 6 100,000 products advanced who are registered to the Canada .
gold , as the Auditor General the has underlined , no given not is recueillie on the use of the pesticides and we not know not not more what are all their ingr?dients , because only the ingr?dients active must be officially registered , then that the huiles or solvants toxic used as other components remain Disclosure .
the effects of the pesticides on the children not are not mesur?s .
only the effects on the adults the are .
his Hon. the Speaker Acting :
I regret of interrupt the Senator , but his time of speak is expired .
the Senator Spivak :
then - I complete my comments , honourable senators ?
his Hon. the Speaker Acting :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Spivak :
he not if is there that of few - concerns of the flaws of the Act on the products antiparasitaires of 1969 , who is seriously d?pass?e .
he there has five years , the government has realized public the to book mauve to , in which he has proposed a new system regulatory , grateful the conflict of interests inherent of Agriculture Canada , who is to the time as injecting and as body of regulatory of the products antiparasitaires .
the power of regulatory has been transf?r? to the Minister of the Health .
five years more later , no bill not has still been introduced .
as the say T . S . Eliot , can - you if expect to this that nothing not come if warring between the thinking and the action ?
fact ironic , if the government has recognized the conflict of interest who properly to the level of the pesticides , he refuses of see the conflict of interest who there to the level of the questions of the security food and of the environment .
the Agency Canadian of inspection of the foods , by example , promotrice of the biotechnologie , if is appropriately in situation of conflict when she if is seen serves , by the bill of bill C - 32 , the responsibility of the assessment of the impact on the environment of the manipulation Diversity of the plantes and of the animals .
this was logical the role of Environment Canada .
the other question whose I like speak briefly , this is similar of the change climate .
the speech of the Throne said that the government commission with the other levels of government for meet the commitment took by our country to Kyoto .
for those who number need that you the their remind , the commitment took to Kyoto was a way for the country , there including the Canada , who not had not respected the commitments took to Rio of save the opposite .
hence almost of a decade that the country have agreed of reduce the shows of gas to effect of greenhouse and the Canada , between other country , not has still established no plan .
this that I want say is very simple .
the cost of the damage occur by the disasters natural in the world double all the five to ten years .
in 1960 , they if chiffraient to least of 10 billion of $ by year .
to present , they if chiffrent to more of 70 billion .
the year last , the companies of assurance to the Canada have should pay 1.5 billion of $ .
the hon. Grimard Grimard :
I have led my career of lawyer in 600 .
I me am even mesur? , during of a election federal , and that for my more great gloom , to Gilles , the son of R?al , as you the called all there - lower .
today today , he rest 38 days before of open the champagne that many d?gusteront the 31 December for f?ter , to midnight , the from in a other century and a other millennium .
yet , the fruit imported of the States - United to big price , who garniront the plateau , recall to several that they not can more travel many that before to the outside of the country .
in effect , the dollar Canadian has descended of the third of his value since the years 70 , whose a good part during the three past years .
the employees ordinary are fellows in $ Canadian .
their FTQ , who exporting more to the States - United , voyagent .
during that the property - fortunate norm , the grandchildren are to the regime because their salary worth 50 under for each dollar win by the Americans , and they must pay 7.13 $ for each of their worth in originating of the States - United .
I know that the you will me say : to Tu just of the 600 .
spent well , not ! De a side , he not is not question of saturer the market artificiellement of earners .
but of the other , I note that the speech of the Throne not amending nothing to those who if concerned of the health of our dollar .
the government not seems hardly if ?nerver .
the year last , the Prime Minister if restricting to declare that this not is not serious if the tourists Canadian not can if pay to the States - United , since they informatics to the New - Brunswick .
I am well in favour of the Canadians tourists home them of first .
I acknowledge that a economy well managed starts by itself - even , but I wish to say that I not love not not more the resources of r?signation who introducing to say that if the Canadians can go to the New - Brunswick or , to this account - there , across elsewhere to the Canada , they not have not to if complaining .
what inspiration and what dynamism find you in the speech of the Throne ? Position response is simple : of the parcels and of the miettes .
for in create , he should reduce the taxes .
gold , each time that the you hassles the Prime Minister and his ministers to this comments , they find always of the reasons for delay the time of act .
to the contrary , the Canada tol?re a rate of unemployment high by report to extend of our seat of the south , a burden tax accablant , a disette of households and a absence of jobs for the young .
comble of all , our drain the more drama ?migrent to the States - United for two reasons : of the best salaries , because that fellows in money American , and least of taxes to pay .
he there has also of many drain foreign who deny of work to the Canada for the same reasons .
Peter C . Mercier , a great writer and observer learned , has wrote during of the decades on the economy Canadian .
in a section released in the branch Affairs of the Ottawa Citizen du17 November 99 , Mr. Mercier has said that the chairman of Newbridge Networks , John Roth , had reason when he has said recently that the rate of tax on the income of the special in force to the Canada cause the drain to the States - United of the academic the more competent and brilliant of our country .
Mr. . Mercier has said that , in the last statement of the Ivey Business Journal of the Scopus of Western Ontario , John Roth has compar? this loss to similar of Gretzky of the high Technology .
who more is , economist Roth , only 28 of the 400 managers senior of Newbridge live to the Canada .
honourable senators , you have certainly received yesterday , all as me , a release of the Cercle national of the journalists , for we announce that extend whose I just of you speak , John Roth , chairman and Leader of the leadership of Newbridge Networks , occasionally a conference Wednesday , the 1 December 99 , to Ottawa .
the theme of his conference is the following : to Pourquoi the Canada loses he not only his more great talents and his positions the better paid , but also his leaders of leadership of the industry ? to
therefore , on a sure plan , the government r?pand a half - truth .
we vendons 85 per of our exports to the States - United and a dollar low we advantage to this level .
but the revers of the became , this is that the government escamote and refuses of promoting that we achetons also 75 per of our worth of the States - United and that we must pay almost 7.13 $ Canadian for each dollar American .
these small cycles of the dollar engloutissent of the amounts extremely important of our have .
of the States - United , to the during of the six first months of 99 , we have importing for 25,8 billion of $ in vehicle Motor , print of alternative and equipment wheelchair , therefore that for almost of 22 billion of $ in bouilloires and machinerie invokes for the great industry .
a other component essential of our worth is the equipment Lower and the aircraft of registration for capably we have vers?11,7 billion of $ to the States - United in six months .
according a other study , the price of the magazines U.S. sold to the Canada has increased of 83 per to the during of the last year .
of more , when we vendons to the States - United our Contents first , whose our railway and our aluminium in vrac , we the rachetons very often filtered in the products myriad , in versant a double penalty if our dollar is low .
in our Access - eat , the price of the fruit and of the l?gumes , in majority of importation American , has increased of 30 per since 1992 , then that extend of the grain has increased of almost 25 per .
we glorifions our voisinage with the States - United for describe our way of life , similar to the their , and in even time we we serve of the States - United for we distinguished , r?affirmant to who means the hear our identity own .
the trade to the detail , the transportation Air , the sports , - have - we enough heard speak of the problems of the hockey majeur auCanada - the research scientific , the Arts , the television , the culture and the edition we shows that we r?sistons difficulty to the attrait American .
the government has said , until here , that the rate of change low of the dollar Canadian favorisait the exports .
this pleasant of the dollar created a part of the more excepting of instability .
he me seems important of highlight under a other contempt that the Americans not only Super our country , but that they are also in considering of the buy cash , to the Room and in bloc , well that he not be not to sell .
they doing labour Lower on our businesses because that their price is quirks lower in reason of the peerage health of our dollar , beg - me , more low even that to the piastre to Caouette to .
in a section of Position Presse of the 16 October last , you fact say Mr. Mundell that the loss of the third of the value of the dollar Canadian since 25 years equivalent to a reduction national of salary .
the reputation deterrent identifies a such d?valuation of cake .
he move , in addition , to the Canada of abandon his policy of fluctuation Monetary and of adopt a rate of change fixed with the dollar American .
Richard Harris , professor of economy to the University Simon Fraser of the British - British , support this inexorably and if recorded in the net minority who not there seen that of the benefits .
a such blocage not created not the unanimously .
not met not deterrent , I not want nothing recommend .
however , I know that the increases and the small of the dollar provoquent of the enrichissements instantan?s .
how of our citizens , who have least of flair for transfusion the humeurs of the m?t?o economic , if poorer also !
I not can not thinking to the first without internalize of the sadness for the seconds .
these variations subites and prononc?es of the huard have a bad effect psychological .
in effect , must - I remind that 85 per of our exports hand to the States - United , but that 75 per of our worth in stem also ?
that the you not notwithstanding not that , pursuing that the Canada attempts , all will for the better in the better of the mondes .
I valid a other question .
I think to Imasco who , he there has to worthy few days , has sold Pharmaprix to the Quebec and Shoppers Drug Mart elsewhere to the Canada .
the 1993 of property Canadian unskilled to view of helpful .
I wager that this will to the Canada .
feelings to the plant of montage of Motor of GM to Boisbriand , institution continued under respiration artificielle since 10 years and where the employees speak constantly of their fear of a closure imminente .
the Canada stellar of a prosperity uncommon , but he plays on the chord raide .
this is because that our power of Purchase collective has decreased since few years that we have lost of the jobs , that our young if concerned of their future and that we lisons of the messages of concern in the media that I seriously learn the sonnette of alarm .
a not of rebuke more far , I know that some quiet to the Canada of follow the example of the Union European and of adopt a motto common who would the dollar American .
fair , we not in are not there .
I believe that a great majority of between we , Canadians of the a or of the other language , have too invested in our have national for renier our identity .
this is for this reason that we insist of we home , without distinction , under the flag American .
these measures only enable to the Canada of maintain his reputation .
honourable senators , I am course that this is the expressed of all the members of this House .
all , we want extrapatrimonial to our children a country in full prosperity .
this will only a action of peppered and of dynamism who foster the performance of our economy .
now that the government seems have domin? the inflation and have developed end since two years to the policy of the Budgets d?ficitaires , indiscriminate a dollar Canadian to the niveaude 66 cents American is unacceptable .
Authorized to the Committee of use the documents and evidence collected during of the review of the bill of bill precedent for the study of the bill of bill present
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Oliver , seconded by the hon. Senator Di Nino :
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional to the during of his study of the faults bill S - 17 , Act amend the Code criminal relatively to the harassment criminal and to of other subjects related , during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament , ensure removed to the Committee , when he will been set , for the presented study of the bill of bill S - 6 . - (
the hon. Senator Cools ) .
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , the Senator Cools has yielding his place and I wish take the speak .
for conclude the debate on this motion , I like you refer to the ...
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I hesitant to interrupt the Senator Oliver , but the debate must be adjourned to the behalf of the Senator Cools .
if the Senator Oliver wants of the closing , the hon. Senator not will not the possible of if express .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
the Senator Oliver :
the Senator Carstairs :
this is very well , honourable senators , to condition that the Senator Cools not means not take the speak .
I not wish not to speak now and I am fully interested to listen the Senator Oliver .
the Senator Hays :
since the Senator Cools has given his agreed , the Senator Oliver can there go of his speech .
the Senator Oliver :
honourable senators , for closing the debate Authorize on this motion , I like draw your attention on the paragraphs 874 and 875 of the sixth edition of Beauchesne , page 250 .
they say this who following :
the Committee who not has not concluded his inquiry to the end of a session can do report to the House of this fact , therefore that of the evidence that he has heard .
he can in addition recommend that to the session next the House him entrusted the even file and that he can if serve of the evidence recueillie until - there .
to least that the House not the allows to in hold account , a Committee not can do report of the evidence prominent before a Committee similar during of a session prior , except under form of appendice .
he is clear that the evidence received by a Committee to the during of a session modified can be removed to a Committee to the during of a new session with the leave of the Senate .
the comment 875 specific that this is all to fact acceptable .
he provides that in the absence of the approval of the Senate , the Committee not can do report of the evidence if this not is under form of appendice .
if you squeal the Authorized of the Senate for that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional can examine the evidence received relatively to the bill of bill S - 17 to the during of the last session in the framework of his study of the bill of bill S - 6 during the session current , the Committee could then use fully the evidence already collected .
the practice British support also the acceptability of my motion .
the nd edition of May May , to the pages 635 and 669 , provides that the reports or the proceedings - Proceedings of evidence of committees precedents who are p?rim?s are frequently removed to of the committees ult?rieurs and that you continues therefore the study of interpellations who not had not been completed to because of the prorogation of the Houses .
in addition , more of ten precedents have been exclusions for this practice to the during of the ten past years and I have drew the attention of the honourable senators on the a of these pr?c?dentsle 3 November last .
the reason for which this practice is acceptable is all to fact obvious .
as I the have mentioned the last time that I have raised the question to the Senate , the fact of allow to of the reports and evidence already received by a Committee to the during of a session modified of be removed to a Committee student the even question to the court of a new session savings of the time and of the money , and this is therefore a practice affordably .
why require that a Committee call to new of the witnesses who have already appeared to this about ?
we gaspillons their time and the money of the taxpayer .
some of these witnesses have appeared to the fees of the Senate and we should their ask of appear to new , still there to the fees of the Senate .
of more , the honourable members of the Committee have already spent many of their time asset to the audition of these witnesses and to the study of the questions .
why should - we their ask of take still more of their time for hear the same evidence ?
he not there has no reason for justify that met given that of the precedents have already been exclusions for allow the type of motion that I have proposed relatively to the bill of bill S - 6 .
I have also consulted Beauchesne order of know this that he said of the instructions to the Committee in view of seek to understand the concern raised to this regard by the Senator Cools .
the mentions appropriate listed to the paragraphs 681 to 685 of the pages 210,000 and 211 .
in the nd edition of May May , he is question of the instructions to the pages 515 to 519 .
honourable senators , the motion that I presented not is not of the nature of a instructed such that the legalities Beauchesne and May May .
a instructed is a motion Authorize a Committee to accomplish someone something who him would words banned or him enjoignant of accomplish someone something whose he could words if alone .
the authorities discussing also of the types of instructions await .
the subsection echoing to the page grew of Beauchesne provides :
is completed any instructed who not if quoted not to the content of the bill of bill or who will to the conflict of his subject .
the motion that I presented not allows not the Committee to accomplish someone something who him would words banned .
all the committees are authorized to call of the witnesses and to hear of the evidence .
the only something that the Senate allows the Committee to accomplish , this is of use the evidence already recueillie by a Committee to the opportunity of a sitting modified in the framework of his study of a bill of bill .
the authorities in Equity of procedure and the practice of the Senate indicate clear that my motion is valid .
the logical and the efficiency justifying that the you continues of there approach .
his Hon. the Speaker Acting :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
motion Authorize the Committee to study the facts new regarding the Assisted and the assistance to the suicide - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Sharon Carstairs , pursuant to the notice given the 18 November 99 , move :
the legislation in which have been implemented in implement the recommendations unanimous presented in the report ;
2 . Conformity evolution to the Canada of the different questions scrutinized in the report ;
3 . Conformity evolution to the abroad of the different questions scrutinized in the report .
that the Committee presented his report final to the more later 6 June 2000 .
- honourable senators , order that the objective of the under - Committee be clear for the senators , I like that they understand that during the period transmission of June 1995 to today today , someone 25 100,000 copies of the report to De the life and of the death to have been drafts .
he is became the about of a sure number of during of schools of medicine and fact now part of their documents of reference for the questions of Assisted and of assistance to the suicide .
however , I not have not the intention of review the decisions main of this study related to the Assisted and to the assistance to the suicide .
I hope that this study chair only the decisions taken of way unanimous .
honourable senators , to condition that the motion receives the agr?ment of the Senate , the study limited follows .
she limited the point on the state of the care palliative to the Canada , there including the state of advancement of the implementation in implement of the recommendations unanimous of 1995 of the Committee .
she limited the point on the state of the control of the pain and of the practices of s?dation to the Canada , there including the state of advancement of the implementation in implement of the recommendations unanimous of 1995 of the Committee .
she limited the point on the state of the refusal and of the v. of the treatment of survival to the Canada , there including the state of advancement of the implementation in implement of the recommendations unanimous of 1995 of the Committee .
she limited the point on the state of the guidelines advanced to the Canada , there including the state of advancement of the implementation in implement of the recommendations unanimous of 1995 of the Committee .
she limited the point on the state of advancement of the implementation in implement of the recommendation unanimous of / of the research regarding the requests of assistance to the suicide to the Canada .
she limited the point on the state of advancement of the implementation in implement of the recommendation unanimous of / of the research regarding the requests of Assisted to the Canada .
she limited the point on the state of advancement of the implementation in implement of the recommendation unanimous of create in the Code criminal a new Leader of convicted for murder to the third degree .
she limited also the point , the case afforded , on the information CTAISB in the annexes of the report , there including the events unambiguous , the jurisprudence and the evolution of the question to the abroad .
honourable senators , I not think not that a assistance of the outside of the Library of the Parliament be necessary for enable the study of this Committee .
I like enter our business without delay - with the approval of the Senate , well course - of such sort that we can present our report the 6 June 2000 .
he not should not there have of travelling , honourable senators , well that I like have Order to the held of vid?oconf?rences .
I have asked to the Clerk of the Committee of inventory a budget , because that the question me fatalities always in my other life .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the hon. Senator Carstairs agree - she of provide a precision ?
the Senator Carstairs :
yes .
the Senator Kinsella :
to the words of the motion whose we are before , the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology if struck of this activity .
the Committee not could - he not exercise the powers whose he limit in under of the Rules for ably the group responsible of the review to departure of the members doing part of the Committee ?
the Senator Carstairs :
well course .
in this time , however , he not there has that two members of the Prime Committee who sit to the Committee of the Affairs Social , be the Senator Lavoie - Lavoie and me - even .
I souhaiterais that to the meetings on this question , he there gave , addition the five members of the Committee of the Affairs Social , the honourable senators Corbin , Keon , DeWare and Beaudoin .
I have spoken the question with these senators , and they me have said that they like participate to the review .
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , I envisaged the comments of the Senator Carstairs to this regard .
he if find that I using this report on the life and the death in my during to the university .
I have discovered that the students not are not forced of seek the information in the researchers American .
the dissertations that they me constrained indicate that they immunities many of this report .
this doing , we regards a real contribution permanent in a field also criticism .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . )
Banking and trade
Authorized to the Committee of study the situation of the regime financial domestique and international
the hon. Leo E . Kolber , pursuant to the notice given the 18 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade be authorized to examine , order of in do report , the situation current of the regime financial domestique and international ;
that the documents and evidence collected to this about to the during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament and all other document Parliamentary and testimony relevant regarding obedience about ensure removed to this Committee ;
that the Committee be authorized to allow the meaning of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business ;
that notwithstanding the practices usual , the Committee be authorized to table a report interim on obedience about deposited of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be reputation have been tabled to the Senate ; and
that the Committee presented his report final to the more later 31 December 2000 .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate if adjourned to the Wednesday 24 November 99 , to 13 p.m. 30 . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 11
the Wednesday 24 November 99
the hon. Rose - Marie Losier - Losier , Speaker Pro tempore
table of the Contents
' ' '
question of privilege
notice
the Late of Jeannine S?guin Conformity Late of Omer Deslauriers
tributes
the tenth anniversary of the commitment of eliminate the poverty
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
Affairs legal and Constitutional
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
Peoples aboriginal
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
energy , environment and resources natural
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
privileges , regulation and procedure
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
Presented of the second report of the Committee
Presented of the third report of the Committee
Finance national
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
notice of motion ordonnant to the Committee referred the bill of bill is referred of the scinder in two
Affairs legal and Constitutional
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to Services of the staff
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Banking and trade
energy , environment and resources natural
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to study of the questions Impediment to his mandate
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to Services of the staff and to if adjourn
the data of the census
Presented of Petitions
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Affairs foreign
the increase of the Estimates of capital in the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) - Position possible of open of new celebrating
the justice
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the conditions of a next referendum Quebec - Changes impact of the initiative of the government
the economy
the Purchase of major companies by of the businesses U.S. - Position policy of the government
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the Quebec - Conformity approach possible to the institution of conditions regarding the held of a referendum
the Quebec - Changes conditions possible of a referendum - Position participation of the other provinces
the Defence national
the narrower white of 1994 - Position policy of the government
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King
the closure of the army Cornwallis - Position clawback of the elaborate comm?moratifs of the chapelleSt. George' St.
Order OF orders
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading - Continued of the debate
referred of the substance of the bill of bill to the Committee
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
bill of bill of 99 on the implementation in implement of conventions tax
second Reading
referred to the Committee
question of privilege
decision of the Speaker
the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
Peoples aboriginal
the Commission Royal of inquiry on the Peoples aboriginal - Autorisation to the Committee of study the recommendations and of apply the Crosbie and the evidence of the session modified to the study current
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of study the state present and the prospects of future of the agriculture
Authorized to the Committee of Services of the staff and of if adjourn
Authorized to the Committee of allow the Electronic of his deliberations
the SENATE
the Wednesday 24 November 99
the sitting is met to 13 p.m. 30 , the Speaker pro tempore met to the Chair .
prayers .
question of privilege
notice
the hon. Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , you have received notice of a question of privilege that I have raised pursuant to the subsection 43 ( 5 ) of the Rules , who said follows :
soon that he receives a notice in under of the sub ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) side - above , the Greffier of the Senate the fact publicize managed and signal to the office of each Senator , to Ottawa , a copy of the notice drafted and of the simultaneous .
I suppose that all the senators have received this notice .
the question of privilege respect the identifies in some media , whose Conformity Soleil of Quebec and the Toronto Star of today today , of the second array of the report of the Committee Standing of the transport and of the Communications on the Divestiture of the industry air to the Canada .
today today , I have the intention of address this question to the time timely and of propose that the case be r?f?r?e to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure .
the Late of Jeannine S?guin Conformity Late of Omer Deslauriers
tributes
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , this is with sadness that I have learned the Late deMme Jeannine S?guin , teacher of training .
Ms S?guin was considered as the a of the more solid pillars of the francophone local , national and international .
the Ontario French , all particularly , loses a Leader of leadership and the Canada is in deuil of a wife strong who has affected the education in language French , of the Maritimes to the dismisses of the Western .
I have known personally Jeannine S?guin and I him realize today today tribute for his dedication to the because French .
Ms S?guin has chaired the Association of the teachers franco - beneficial , the Association Canadian - French of the Ontario and the Federation of the communities francophones and acadiennes of the Canada .
she if poop by his great determination , his ent?tement and a sense of the operating policy outside fine .
she had spent his life to the education , to the promotion of the unity Canadian and to the development of the institutions ?ducatives in language French .
the year 99 has dismantling the departure of two great advocates of the francophone Ontario .
to the spring , Omer Deslauriers we quittait .
this man , to the namely of Ms S?guin , if was distinguished by his support to the because of the accessibility of the francophones beneficial to the services of education and of health .
we are today today in deuil of two persons who have dismantling our community .
the tenth anniversary of the commitment of eliminate the poverty
the hon. Erminie J . Cohen :
gold , to the held of be dropped , the poverty home the children if is increased of 60 per to the during of the last decade .
therefore , 460 100,000 children approximately are in a situation pushed .
our efforts for do away the poverty home the children have been d?plorables .
yesterday night , I have participated to a vigile in silence before the Flamme eventually for pleurer the inability of the Parliament of the Canada of meet his commitment to the regard of the children poor .
I talking today today , honourable senators , to the behalf of the hundreds of thousands of children of our country rich who continue of live in the poverty , to go to the school the vomit vacuum and to live in of the housing d?labr?s .
they forsaken on the government for meet the speak of the Parliament and hold his promises , but this promise has been Constitution .
to the during of the last decade , the rate of unemployment high has been point? of the doigt as the a of the main causes of the number growing of children alive in the poverty .
yet , then that the rate of unemployment have began to pretending , the poverty home the children has continued of increase .
why ?
with this minuscule amount , she must if urban , if esteem and if v?tir therefore that his child .
the children poor doing opposite all the legalities to the even sad reality .
how can - they centrer their attention on the learning when they live in of the conditions also d?plorables ?
they not can not rely on a boyhood without request .
you note of the warning of reinvesting , of bad health , of behaviour antisocial and of the delay in the learning of the vocabulary .
this is unacceptable in a country who if vaunts of have a level of life higher .
the rate of poverty to the Canada is almost bashful .
to the during of the last decade , honourable senators , the government has reduced of way substantially the funds paid to the provinces for of the needs basic - for the services social , for of the housing done , for of the care of health and for the education .
the reform of the insurance - unemployment affects particularly the women whose the Eligibility to the benefits has reached his more senior level in the history the year last .
you has eliminated the deficit to the backs of the programs social .
in fact , our political national have virtually forsaken the children to their fate to the during of the past years .
to the enter of a new millennium , I implore the government of hold the promise made to our children , promise who not would never should stay letter morte .
he there has a ray of hope : the recent announcement of a shot of six million of $ in the housing social .
add - there of other are and affectons - the to the investment to long term , to the support of the income and to the services 118.8 to the children order of improve the condition of the without - homeless , of remanier the insurance - employment in in att?nuant the requirements and in rolls the number of the persons eligible .
consider seriously the role drives of the government federal deposited of the provinces in Equity of Benefit of the programs social .
the discussions should bringing not not on the sharing of the powers between the government federal and the provinces , but rather on this that the governments can do , together , for help the people in the need , because he must if remind that the children of today today are the leaders and the taxpayers of tomorrow .
they deserve many better .
we have a obligation others them and others the Canada .
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
Affairs legal and Constitutional
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , regarding the Estimates incurred by the Committee during the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report found in the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
Peoples aboriginal
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. Charlie Watt :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal , regarding the Estimates that the Committee has encourues during the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report found in the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
energy , environment and resources natural
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural , regarding the Estimates that the Committee has encourues during the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report found in the Journals of the Senate of today today ) .
privileges , regulation and procedure
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. Jack Austin :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Senate Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure , regarding the Estimates that the Committee has encourues during the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report found in the Journals of the Senate of aujourd , today . )
Presented of the second report of the Committee
the hon. Jack Austin , chairman of the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure , presented the report following :
the Wednesday 24 November 99
the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure has the honour of present his
second REPORT
your Committee , pursuant to the section 108 of the Rules and to the request of the hon. Senator Taylor , sponsor of the bill of bill of interest private if intitulant : to Act amend the Act establish in human moral the board of the former of the branch Canadian of the church morave of America to , recommends that the section 1,106,000 of the Rules not if applies not to this bill of bill .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
JACK AUSTIN
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , when taken - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Austin , the study of the report is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
Presented of the third report of the Committee
the hon. Jack Austin , chairman of the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure , presented the report following :
the Wednesday 24 November 99
the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure has the honour of present his
third REPORT
your Committee , authorized by the Senate the 13 October 99 to examine a question of privilege raised by the hon. Senator Kinsella regarding a witness who has appeared before the Committee Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry , request that , by derogation to the notwithstanding 92 ( 2 ) Edward Rules , he be authorized to hold of the meetings to camera closed for hear of the evidence .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
JACK AUSTIN
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , when taken - we this report ?
the Senator Austin :
we the taken now , with your leave .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
not .
( on the motion of the Senator Austin , the study of the report is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
Finance national
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national , regarding the Estimates incurred by the Committee to the during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report found in the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
notice of motion ordonnant to the Committee referred the bill of bill is referred of the scinder in two
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 25 November 99 , I move :
Affairs legal and Constitutional
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to Services of the staff
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 25 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , personnel , employees of office or other elements necessary for examine of the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have been d?f?r?es .
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to allow the Electronic of his deliberations by of the means electronic
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 25 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional be authorized to allow the Electronic of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , of manner to bother the least possible his business .
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 25 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology be authorized to sit during the sittings of the Senate of the Monday 29 November , of the Tuesday 30 November and of the Wednesday 1 December 99 , and that the application of the subsection 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
Banking and trade
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Leo E . Kolber :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and by derogation to the notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) has ) of the Rules , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade be authorized to sit to 15 p.m. 30 today today , even if the Senate seat to this time - there , and that the application of the subsection 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
leave granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , then - I ask to the chairman of the Committee why he believe necessary of sit today today ?
the Authorized has been granted , but we like well know in what is - this also important ?
the Senator Kolber :
the Committee of the Banking undertakes today today the review of the problems occur by the gains in capital to the Canada and we begin of strong little of time for the complete since we comptons complete our report preliminary before the end of the year .
the professor Reuven Brenner , who has wrote the a of the documents who fact authority in the Equity , has could if covering , in despite of the notice very short that we him have given , and come to Ottawa appear before our Committee .
if we want do our work , we must begin our review to the more soon .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
however , I like ask to the chairmen who want that their Committee if circumstance during that the Senate seat of we give a notice more long that extend - side .
that we highlights , and highlights the witnesses , in a situation embarrassing .
the work of the senators in this chamber is priority .
the program of the committees must be honoured , as you the has explained to the senators before that they not assume the duties of chairman , of deputy - chairman or of member of the committees .
of this side - side , to least of a emergency - and I accept that this be the case today today - we not are not very enclins to give the Authorized and to allow that the senators leaving the House , who is the place where they should be when the Senate seat .
the Senator Kolber :
honourable senators , I not have no doubt that our responsibility first be of be attendance to the House .
we have also the responsibility of do our work .
he not we rest that few days for the do .
this are for the most of the experts well known in their field .
honourable senators , I me in defer to your decision .
if the hon. Senator of in opposite means meet our Leader for change the treated vacancy to our Committee , be .
if he not means not that we hear our work , be .
however , if really you if expected to this that we the hear , that you we give to the least the possible of we there put .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
honourable senators , if the chairman of the Committee charge of the difficulties with the treated who him is vacancy , I want well the satisfy in him in appearing a other , the Monday or the Friday , or in evening during the week .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
energy , environment and resources natural
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to study of the questions Impediment to his mandate
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 25 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural , in Conformity with the notwithstanding 86 ( 1 ) prospered ) of the Rules , be authorized to study the questions who could telecom occasionally if 2:07 to the energy , to the environment and to the resources natural in General of the Canada ; and
that the Committee convey report to the Senate to the more later 31 March 2000 .
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to Services of the staff and to if adjourn
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 25 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , personnel , employees of office or other elements necessary for examine the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have been removed ; and
that the Committee be authorized to if adjourn to across the Canada and to the abroad to the purposes of such reviews .
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to allow the Electronic of his deliberations by of the means electronic
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 25 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural be authorized to allow the meaning of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
the data of the census
Presented of Petitions
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the honour of present a petition of the Ontario Genealogical Society , who has been signed by 190 persons and who request follows :
... the petitioners concurrence the Parliament of adopt a bill order of preserve the data of the marked of after 1901 , of the serves to the Archives national and of put these data and those of the marked ult?rieurs to the clause of the public to the across of 92 years , this who is currently consistent to the many provisions legislation on the protection of the information personal and to the soon in force to the hour current .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Affairs foreign
the increase of the Estimates of capital in the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) - Position possible of open of new celebrating
the hon. Terry Stratton :
honourable senators , I have a question to ask to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
to the beginning of the week , we have had the great happy of meet of the representatives of the Council of the Treasury for examine the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) .
including , we have discussed of the appropriation of the Department of the Affairs foreign and of the Trade international .
the Canada has he open or if furthered he to open of the celebrating or of the consulates in the world ?
I believe know that he built a new Embassy to Berlin in reason of the transfer of the capital of the Germany of Bonn to Berlin .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Senator imagine that I not limit not of these information .
however , I me entretiendrai with the Minister and I attention the information to the Senator and to this House tomorrow or to the beginning of the week next .
the Senator Stratton :
I in determine grateful to the Leader of the government .
I believe know that the construction of the Embassy to Berlin costs someone 71 million of $ , and the costs have increased .
however , he rest always a trou of 60 million of $ , in this sense that we know the reason of these million .
we have asked of the explanation to the representatives of the board .
he would can - be preferable that the hon. Leader consult these information of the Council of the Treasury and that he the tabled to the Senate , because I am puzzling of know to what are Millenium these 60 million of $ .
the Senator Tkachuk :
that fact a very nice residence .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I will ask these information to the behalf of the hon. Senator and I rapporterai to the Senate any information that I happy in legislation of obtain .
the justice
the cost of the program of registration of the weapons to gun - Position responsibility of the Minister
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , during of the even meeting , yesterday morning , Mr. Lieff , of the Council of the Treasury , has appeared before the Committee for speak of the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates , in particular of the program of registration of the weapons to gun .
I him have asked a sure number of questions on the reason for which 35 million of $ additional were necessary then that of the appropriation of 40 million of $ had already been planned in the budget downpayment .
Mr. . Lieff has then seemed the cost of the program of registration of the weapons to gun since 1995 .
I have me - even been appalled in highest the figure of 309 million of $ .
the government should know that this amount bashful , this is this that number of parliamentarians and of opposed to the program of registration of the weapons to gun him had predicted in 1994 and 1995 , to know that his estimates were very in minimum of the reality and that the program cost of the hundreds of million of $ .
the government has rejected all our protests in saying that we not knew not of what we pasts .
the Minister , Mr. Rock , had said that the cost would of only 85 million of $ and this , for any the length of the program of registration , be of 1995 to 2001 .
we in are now to 309 million of $ and this not is not ran .
the Leader of the government is - he also of notice that the Minister Rock is responsible of this enormous mistake of calculating who costs of the hundreds of million of $ to the taxpayers Canadian ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have a interpretation little different of the response afford by the senior official .
the Senator Forrestall :
why not accept he not this responsibility , in this case ?
the Senator Boudreau :
I know that the process of registration knows of the difficulties .
the Senator Tkachuk :
you the has well indicated he there has three years .
the Senator Boudreau :
in reality , a review has been merit in May last and of the recommendations have been made for improve the process .
the three quarters of these recommendations have been colleague .
the treatment of the requests of registration is now more effective .
according the information whose I limit , 8 500 licences are d?livr?s and 35 100,000 weapons to gun are parcels each months .
that not meets not all to fact to the question that the hon. Senator has raised , but that evidence really that the process has been examined , that of the improvements have been concerning and that the system seems operate .
the Senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , this is always the even history .
they have said that this was the Minister .
I request now to the Leader of the government to the Senate who is responsible and he meets that , well course , the Minister is always responsible , but that he there has had all these problems .
he not there has never of responsible , because that if he there in had a , he bet .
the Senator Forrestall :
hear !
the Senator Tkachuk :
if he not served not his Resignation , this is that he consider that he not is not responsible .
who therefore is responsible to the within of the bureaucracy ?
this is possible also .
the Minister could can - be we say , if he is responsible as he the states , what price he must pay for a if serious mistake ?
why not has he not resigned ?
if he not is not responsible , who therefore is responsible to the within of the democracy ?
can - be the Minister should - he ask the held of a inquiry official for in inform the parliamentarians .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I understand the concerns of the Senator further to the Estimates exceed Conducted in the framework of this program .
the hon. Terry Stratton :
honourable senators , I have a question Supplementary to ask .
the government must surely have now a idea of this that will the costs Processing .
need you spending slightly million , 800 million or a billion of $ ?
not pays - you not we give a idea of the costs financial planned ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I discuss certainly of the question with the Minister responsible and bring share to the House of all the information that I receive .
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the conditions of a next referendum Quebec - Changes impact of the initiative of the government
the hon. Jean - Claude Rivest :
honourable senators , then that the Canadians if concern of the questions economic and Social , the government of the Canada has chosen artificiellement , in a of his talk improvisations , of bring to the Prime plan the question referendum .
why the government of the Canada has he decided to this time - side of bring this question to the before - scene of the today policy to the Canada ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , if the government Canadian Justice appropriate of express his notice on a question also fundamental that similar whose we talking , the lacked is absolutely necessary .
the lacked is required as to comments of the nature of the question that to comments of the result required for that the process d?marre .
further to know what is the better time for raise this question and the address publicly for actually clear the notice of the government , I suppose that no time not is better that a other , since this not is not for all of following .
the government and the Prime Minister feel can - be that he is timely of airing clear soon now the point of view of the government of the Canada on these questions very important to the held of expect of be in the gun of the campaign .
the Senator Rivest :
honourable senators , to short term , I not know not if the Minister in is aware , but the initiative of the Prime Minister of the Canada of raise this question ?ce time - side seems unfortunately turn to the advantage of the option spectre to the Quebec .
I not know not what lecturele government Canadian retient of his initiative .
Onparle many of the lacked of this question .
the Minister etle government of the Canada are - they aware that leurinitiative - taken seems he unilaterally - , far of cimenter the cohesion of the forces federalists to the Quebec , creates unfortunately of the confusion home those who must defend the option Canadian to the Quebec ?
the Leader of the Party Liberal of the Quebec , Mr. Jean Charest , if is dissoci? publicly , this after - afternoon , to the Assembly national , of the initiative taken by the Prime Minister of the Canada .
is - this that the government think that this manner unilaterally of proceed in the debate referendum commit the because of the unity Canadian ?
not would - he not preferable that the government of the Canada , the government of the Quebec and those of the other provinces showing a attitude of openness and of understanding for convince the Quebecers of choose the seaway of the option Canadian ?
some Quebecers who uncast without too of conviction for the sovereignty achieving without doubt the option Canadian .
he not must not give of arguments to these people .
if he there had a referendum to the Quebec in this time , this initiative placerait the Party Quebec of a side , Jean tien of the other .
jean Charest and the Party Liberal of the Quebec not shiny too of what side dealt !
in soulevant officially the question of the referendum without consult the Main door - speak of the forces federalists to the Quebec , the Party Liberal of the Quebec , commit - you the because of the unity Canadian ?
in subject unilaterally , you d?stabilise the Party Liberal of the Quebec and the forces federalists assured .
in January or February 2000 , I hope that this unfortunate incident will forgotten .
the Minister could - he convince his colleagues of the cabinet , in particular his Prime Minister and the Minister of the Affairs Intergovernmental , of avoid of lead of the actions who serve the because of the separatists benefiting the sovereignty to the Quebec ?
not could - he not trying of hire his colleagues to work of way positive and normal with the together of the federalists Quebec for strengthen the option federalist to the Quebec to the held of the unnoticed , as you has unfortunately could the see this week ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , he is clear that the Prime Minister consider the question important and fundamental for the future of the country .
his notice regarding the referendums and the separation is exceedingly .
on this point basic , he not there has not of disagreement .
by respect for the Quebecers who voteraient to a requires referendum , if the Canada and the Quebec have the misfortune of in have a other , we gone a role to play and a opinion to express for do in sort that the question be clear .
he important of express this opinion , and I believe that the Prime Minister think also that he must the do know .
some say that the government of the Canada must be a simple observer , a to voyeur to , in all referendum who if d?roulerait to the Quebec , even if the question prepared greatly to confusion and if the results are steely .
the Senator Rivest :
is - this that the Leader of the government to the Senate suggests hear by his response that the very hon. Prime Minister of the Canada , Mr. Pierre Elliott Trudeau , during of the referendum of 1980 , not was that a voyeur ?
the Senator Boudreau :
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , we attempting of determine in what legislation the government of the Canada account play a role in the process referendum to the Quebec .
we have received of the appearance conflicting .
if the government not is not satisfy of the question prepared and endorsed by the Assembly national , will he there superposer his own question ?
you committed often the word to lacked to .
in last analysis , who determine if the question is enough clear ?
will - this the government of the Canada or the Assembly national of the Quebec ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , in the preview decision that she has decided , the Court Supreme has indicated that the government of the Canada has indeed a role to play in the process .
I have heard , yesterday night , this that the Prime Minister had said to the period of the questions to the other place .
the elements of the file are still to the study , as the Prime Minister the has indicated , but I am sure that he will know in detail the Position of the government soon that he will prepared to the do .
to this time - there , I happy very happy of you give more of details that I not can the do today today .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
honourable senators , I remind to the Minister that the Court Supreme not has realized or judgment or decision , that this was a simple opinion , and that she not has given of guidelines to no government .
the Court Supreme has been called to if deal on three questions CTAISB in a referred of the government of the Canada .
I remind also to the Minister that the province of Quebec has refused of if present before the Court Supreme and that this last has should load a lawyer of represent the province .
to the three questions , the court has answered to not to .
unfortunately , to my notice , the Court Supreme has far outrepass? his mandate in d?cidant of establish some lines guidelines regarding the question and the result , what that they ensure .
to my notice , that has matching for effect of l?gitimer the separation .
to because of the Court Supreme , because that she has established of the lines guidelines and of the rules on the way whose the approach referendum should if d?rouler and on this who should arrive if the result not was not favourable to the Canada , he is became for the first time legitimate of speak of the possible of a separation .
I believe that the Court Supreme has outrepass? there his mandate .
of any manner , why the government federal not we said - he not what question him expression acceptable , not said - he not to the government Quebec that he not treated of the credibility that to the response to this question and not suggests he not the Quebecers decide ?
what question should - you ask to the Quebecers , according the government federal ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , if the you in just never to that , I suppose that the question will worded by the Assembly national of the Quebec .
I not believe not that the government federal cite options to the people Quebec a question Authorize on the separation .
in this who respect the decision of the Court Supreme , this is a question of opinion .
the hon. Senator Staunton - Lynch has given his opinion on the comments made by the Court Supreme .
I think that good number rightly that these comments have been strong useful and that they have given a indication of the way whose the Canadians wish that their government involved to a requires process .
he is to hope that this constituted not if inquire never .
in the interest of the Quebecers and of the Canadians , can he not never there have of other question referendum .
the economy
the Purchase of major companies by of the businesses U.S. - Position policy of the government
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the year last , the government has refused the proposal of merger of the major Banking Canadian .
we know now that this decision policy has caused of the torts irr?parables to the economy Canadian .
the government not has not product of book white or of bill of bill who lib?rera our main institutions financial of the job regulatory to which they are covered , and that , for their allow of support the competition on the scene international .
in the Financial Financial of today today , Peter Godsoe , the chairman and steering General imminently respected of the Bank Scotia , if concern cleansing of the future of the major companies Canadian .
Mr. . Godsoe has said that our major companies open must power support the competition of the best businesses of the Americas and that our political governmental not must not the p?naliser , but well the encourage to be competitive to the abroad .
the Leader of the government to the Senate can - he we say what policy public the government provides put in place for do in sort that few - concerns of our major businesses remain Canadian and not ensure not all achet?es by of the businesses U.S. ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the globalization of the economy , we have observed a Submarine of the investment U.S. in the businesses Canadian .
same , he there has had a Submarine of the investment Canadian in of the businesses U.S. .
the investment hand in the two sense .
I not believe not have the figures to scope of labour , but I me commitment to the provide to the hon. Senator soon that I the speak .
some persons are very decreased before the investment U.S. in some sectors of our economy .
however , of other sectors would very happy of receive of the investment , little important the source .
I think all particularly to of the businesses of the province of origin of the hon. Senator Oliver , who is also my province of origin .
the Senator Oliver :
honourable senators , the week last , Peter Lougheed , a former Prime Minister of the Alberta and a leader of business respected , has developed the Canadians in Access against the erosion of our sovereignty in reason of the drop of the value of our dollar and of the negative excessive of the taxes .
according of the sections articles in our newspapers , some ministers important of the cabinet concerned that the Prime Minister not convey obstruction to a debate on the future of our economy .
Mr. . Godsoe has asked to the government if he lancera a debate national on the role of our major businesses .
the Leader of the government to the Senate lancera he a such debate ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the Prime Minister is present all the days to the other place and can answer to the questions on this about .
by elsewhere , he is possible of discuss of this about as to the other place that here .
for this who is of the increase of the investment U.S. in the businesses Canadian , I points that , in some case , he there has can - be held of if sort , but that , in of other , these investment are the welcome .
in some regions of the Canada and some sectors of our economy who not have not had of investment of someone source that this be , the investment U.S. idle to point appointed .
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the Quebec - Conformity approach possible to the institution of conditions regarding the held of a referendum
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , my question is supplementary to those who have been raised lines on the intentions of the government relatively to a requires next referendum to the Quebec .
he is clear , of after the comments held by the Leader therefore that by the Prime Minister bearer Dion , that the government provides take of the measures .
what form cognizant these measures ?
if Glenney he of a bill , of a resolution or of a simple statement of principle ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , he is clear that the government expeditiously seriously to take of the measures .
in effect , the Prime Minister has said yesterday night in a interview public , that I have had the fortunate of hear , that the government going take of the measures further to the lacked of the question .
the Prime Minister has spoke of a bill , of a resolution or of a statement of principle who would made by him or a other important door - speak of the government .
the Prime Minister has said that the discussions if poursuivaient further to the seaway to follow and that he not was not in legislation , for the moment , of say how the government Burmese of do argue his point of view .
I not can not in say more that the Prime Minister .
the Quebec - Changes conditions possible of a referendum - Position participation of the other provinces
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , my second question respect the to discussions in during to whose the Minister has spoke .
more specifically , I like know if the provinces involved to these discussions in during .
in the response of the Court Supreme to the referred of the government , he is question of all the partners to the within of the Confederation .
have - I reason of assume that , of the notice of the government , the expression to all the partners to means say the ten provinces and the government federal ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Prime Minister has fact referring to of the discussions in during between his colleagues and him - even .
for the time , I not know not in what legislation the discussions are corridors more far .
in fact , yesterday , I have said that I not if not surprised if the provinces were interested also to express their points of view on of the questions of lacked .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , the period of the questions of 30 minutes is now completed .
the leave is - she granted of continue ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Defence national
the narrower white of 1994 - Position policy of the government
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I want know if , yes or not , the narrower white of the Defence of 1994 remains the statement of Position final of the government present on the questions related to the Defence .
if he there has had of the changes , the Parliament in has he been advised or there has he had of the consultation public to this regard ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I believe that the Senator me has asked the even question yesterday after - afternoon .
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I like ask a question general to the Minister .
there has he had a change of policy ?
I me concern of the helicopters .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , as we in have discussed lines , this program is the great priority of the Minister of the Defence national .
something some , this is a initiative that I support and that I encourage .
I hope that we basis in legislation of say someone something of positive in a future grown .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , yesterday , to the other place , the Secretary Parliamentary of the Minister of the Defence national had follows to say to this about :
... she is on the office of the Minister and this is to him that he works of take the decision .
you has said that this was a priority .
why the Minister not takes - he not a decision ?
is - this because that he there has a change in the policy of Defence ?
the notes of the Minister to this regard consequences very clear the calendar for the Alternative of the Sea King bidding to board of ships .
that must - you believe ?
why a decision not has she not been taken , if the statement of the needs is priority and if find on the office of the Minister for that he the paraphe ?
you has created a office for if office of this question .
I like know this that he in costs for do operate a office who not fact nothing .
this is as maintain a old voiture of path of railway to the case where someone a like if in serve a time by year .
what is the response ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I understand the concern of my hon. colleague .
the Senator Forrestall :
I not the think not .
the Senator Boudreau :
course , I greetings his representations to the hon. Minister , who me guarantees to each opportunity that that remains his key priority .
he is to hope that we basis in legislation of obtain of the results positive in a future grown .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , this estle 4 November that I has asked for the last time a question to this about .
the length of life esp?r?e of the Sea King if touch in 2005 .
he met eight years for the replace , this who fact that during three years , we not regards no helicopter .
he there has a sure number of solutions .
I like well know if , yes or not , the government will send our ships in sea without helicopters .
will he borrowing of the helicopters to the Shipping American ?
the Department will he / a other program of modernization - God we in Access - of the Sea King , who could can - be put the ships and the turnarounds in danger ?
that will do the government and when will he announce his intentions to this about ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the Minister is well aware of all the solutions who if business to him , there including those that the hon. Senator has mentioned .
he must hope that the announcement will made to this about the more earlier possible .
this is the response the better and the more complete that I can give to the hon. Senator to this stage - side .
the closure of the army Cornwallis - Position clawback of the elaborate comm?moratifs of the chapelleSt. George' St.
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , the week last , I have asked a question to the Leader of the government to the Senate regarding the clawback of the elaborate of the chapelle to the army Cornwallis .
he has answered that he there had more of world in the capital of the Nova - Nova and that he was therefore preferable of dramatically the elaborate there where more of people can the see .
I not have not could forced the case more far to this time - there .
this apologize me has however somebody .
to this account - there , all the tr?sors of the regions not urban of the Nova - Nova who can be materials not should - they not if passed to Halifax ?
if the you followed this logical until to across , he should can - be accommodation the onto of ?vang?line of Grand - Pr? to Halifax for that a more great number of people carry the see .
the hon. Senator Boudreau , who lives now to Halifax , should know that he is offusquant for all the not - haligoniens of hear say that the elaborate should be d?m?nag?s of Cornwallis to Halifax because that he there has more of world in this city .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not have not been also cassant , in my response , that the hon. Senator the has left hear .
to my knowledge , the held where if twenty the elaborate was to all purposes useful d?saffect? since a year , not having been used that a time or two during any the year .
the Senator Comeau :
honourable senators , I have a last question supplementary .
I know that the Minister receives , of former Veterans who are tenure by Cornwallis and who have paid for the fen?tres , not difficulty of information to the about of the promise that the Department of the Defence national their had made of farming the elaborate a time the facilities in place .
I hope that the Minister if tighten seriously on this question .
even if he expeditiously to if present to the next election in Halifax - Halifax - Western , me said - you - he not should not let that mess his judgment .
many I love the city of Halifax , the a of the more talk cities of the Canada , many I believe that the areas not urban of the Nova - Nova not can if allow of losing their tr?sors .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I not am not of agreed with the Senator on a point , but I the am on a other .
say that the city of Halifax is the a of the more talk cities of the Canada , I not am not of agreed .
I find that this is the more nice city of the world .
the Senator Kinsella :
why ?
that reprochez - you to Ottawa ?
the Senator Boudreau :
for this who is of the principle who seems preoccupied the Senator , I not think not that we stopped that all the heritage of the Nova - Nova be centralis? ; I r?examinerai therefore the question .
the Senator Forrestall :
have - you performance the please - God ?
the Senator Boudreau :
I Technicolor in addition have decided where I me pr?senterais to of future election .
Order OF orders
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Kirby , seconded by the hon. Senator Lewis , seconded to the second Reading of the bill of bill C - 6 , Act designed to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of means electronic for communicate or registering of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the Instruments regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I rise to the about of the bill of bill C - 6 .
as you 53,000 the see , honourable senators , he not if is not of a Presented in good and properly form to this about .
this is a bill of bill who found since a sure time to the Paper and who has fact the subject of very good discussions .
I congratulate the sponsor of the bill of bill , the Senator Kirby , therefore that the senators Murray , Finestone , Oliver and Keon , whose the interventions we have many drafting to understand the bill of bill .
to the listen , I have revived that they appuyaient in the together the bill of bill , but that they entretenaient however some concerns soulign?es in particular by the notice of motion presented more earlier today today by the Senator Murray .
I speak particularly of the process surrounding the study of the bill of bill C - 6 .
in quality of Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate , I must recognize that I have very forward that he be Message to the Committee .
of the comments me have been made - and I am satisfied that this was the case for all the honourable senators - by of the witnesses potential who wish appear before the Committee , whose some if concerned of the wording present of the bill of bill and farm have the opportunity of indication the improvements that they sharpest see .
as I the have mentioned before , some of the honourable senators who are yesterday in the debate on the bill of bill have expressed of the reserves similar .
the objective that I intended in my quality of Leader Deputy is of ensure to this that the bill of bill be Message to the Committee order that these witnesses carry be heard and that we can move to the step next of the process legislative .
however , I acknowledge the need of do place to a debate on the legislation legislative and a notice of motion has been presented in view of scinder the bill of bill .
he there has even had of the comments of the Senator Finestone of our side of the House to the about of the study of a amendment to the bill of bill .
I have discussed with my counterpart , the Senator Kinsella , Leader Deputy of the Opposition , as the provides the section 38 of the Rules , order of trying of find a ground of agreement on the way whose you should deal this bill of bill , account held of the concerns address by the senators .
this last has underlined that the better way of trying of conclude a agreement on the way of deal this bill of bill would that I raises of first the question to the Senate today today for that the senators ensure well to the fact of my proposal .
if of other senators want do of the comments on my proposal , this is perfect .
then , I inviterai the Senator Kinsella to we do share of his own comments on the proposal - during the period allocated to the questions and comments - of way to this that the senators ensure well to the aware of this who if proceeded and why .
the bill of bill C - 6 in is the step of the second Reading and he seems that he be important for the Opposition that he in rest there until to this that we news had the time of we dealt on some proposals of amendments .
to my notice , he would benefit for this do of power rely on the deliberations of the committees relatively to this bill of bill .
this that I me furthered to technique , this not is not a motion , but rather a idea for a motion possible .
if the honourable unhappy the idea , I speak their ask the leave required .
this is therefore that I suggestion of deal this bill of bill .
however , before that I convey my suggestion , I like say that the author of the motion and the Main obviate for the Opposition should obtain the leave of take the speak .
to payments of Leader Deputy of the government , I am prepared to give this leave for facilitate the things and find a ground of agreement to the Senate .
I better also highlight that this not is not the first time that a proposal of this kind is tabled since that I nat this position .
I know that the Senator Frith and the Senator Doody , when they were all the two leaders assistants of their party respectif , had sometimes acted therefore .
this not is not a situation who should to my notice if represent often .
he if is therefore of a attempt of do current the bill of bill to the Senate all in appearing the flexibility necessary for hear the reserves address to his about .
honourable senators , I move , to the outcome of our discussion , that the bill of bill C - 6 be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology , with instructed that he in be fact rapportle 2 December 99 in two consistently : the Prime on the part 1 and the second on the parties 2 to 5 of the bill of bill ; that the debate on the second Reading gave held by the following and led to term ; and that all review supplementary of the bill of bill be merit in Committee Whole .
I not want not propose the motion all of following .
we not things generally not of the sort to the Senate , but that sounds enough to our way of do for that human not gave held of if in sort .
however , I ask to the Senator Kinsella of we give his notice , to the average of a question or of a observation , and I lead then of the opportunity for the questions to my turn .
of other senators located can - be if express to this about , including the Senator Kirby and the Senator Murray .
to the conclusion of this discussion or of this debate , I ask then the leave of present the motion whose I you have already given the major lines .
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , as just of the do complying the Senator Hays , me met already expressed on this bill of bill , I request the leave of answer now to this proposal .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Murray :
honourable senators , I thank the Leader Deputy of the government of his comments and of his proposal .
as he the has very exactly said , he there has to the Senate a support General for the principle and the objective of this bill of bill .
however , he there has of the problems faced have fact referring some of between we in their speech during of the second Reading .
I can say very briefly this that I have to say and I the say under any contingency of the notice of motion that I have opportunity before you today today .
he me is perfectly indiff?rent that we renvoyions the bill of bill or , as the has proposed the Senator , the subject of the bill of bill to the Committee this week .
if the Senator Hays think that proceed of the sort will for effect of speed the review of the bill of bill and , in particular , the study of some problems who have been raised , I him amending my support total .
follows said , he there has a point that I not have not very well including .
the Leader Deputy has he proposed a date for the report of the Committee ?
the Senator Hays :
the Senator Murray :
this is this that I afraid have heard .
I me explain .
the Senator Kirby , the chairman of the Committee , me has guest yesterday to attend to a meeting of the Committee of leadership with him and the senators Carstairs and LeBreton .
to this meeting , we have past in magazine the list of the witnesses potential , this is - to - say the people who have expressed the desire of if present before the Committee for express their points of view on the bill of bill .
as the chairman of the Committee could the confirm , the list is long .
I have said to this meeting that I me int?ressais more - if I then me express therefore - to the quality that to the amount .
I want ensure to this that the major points of view ensure views and internally in depth .
I have found that he not is can - be not necessary of hear all those who had expressed the desire of if present before we .
this is however to the Senator Kirby that revert the task unpleasant of try of in persuade some that they not have not need of be heard .
this is always difficult .
I want do understand that this would a travestissement of our duty that of try of do complements the study of the subject of the bill of bill by the Committee before the 2 December and that that exposerait with reason the Senate and the Committee to of tougher criticism .
honourable senators , of other wish can - be speak to this about .
I not have absolutely no objection , in principle , to go now the Committee of the subject of the bill of bill and to do examine the bill of bill in Committee Whole a time that the Committee will fact report to the Senate .
the government means that the things argue .
however , if he can be sure of accept a amendment who r?soudrait the problems who have been raised here , particularly in the sector of the care of health , I if prepared to this that we the considering and to this that we the renvoyions to the House of the Commons to time for that she can the study before the ajournementdu 17 December .
honourable senators , such are the benchmarks of the situation such that I the see .
the chairman or the other members of the Committee have the speak .
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I have me also need of the leave of the Senate for take the speak , fault of what my intervention instrument normally end to the debate to the step of the second Reading , this that I not have not the intention of do .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Kirby :
honourable senators , as of usual , without doubt because that the Senator Murray and me - even have all two been Leader of cabinet of a Prime Minister of the Maritimes , I am in full agreed with him on all this that he has said .
in some case , the affinit?s regional are many more strong that the affinit?s political .
the fact is that of many witnesses have asked to appear before the Committee .
that the you refer the subject of the bill of bill to a Committee Whole or to the Committee of the Affairs Social , met heard that my Committee introduce two reports , me important little .
the two options we suitable .
when the Senator Murray said that he means alters the question , I believe that he timely the sense that we must we ensure that we understand exactly of what he account in this who respect the care of health , and I am of agreed with him .
in the motion that has introduced the Senator Hays , he is obvious that , little important if a date clear is arr?t?e , the essential is that we entamions our business quickly .
he should that the Committee seat to rely of afternoon , Monday , until in the evening , and that he in convey many Tuesday and Wednesday .
of where my notice of motion .
to the namely of the Senator Murray , I believe that we must begin to examine the question quickly .
as he the said , if the Committee seemed arrive to the conclusion that a amendment to the bill of bill was justified , all as him , I believe that he would important that the Senate refer the bill of bill to the House of the Commons to time for that she the examine before the break of No .
in the together , I am of agreed with the Senator Murray .
I not have nothing to repeat on the substance of the bill of motion of the Senator Hays , to condition that we can remove the mention of the date and all simply subtly , by wrote or by a agreement between the senators , that the Committee chair this bill of bill quickly and of a manner effective .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
I believe that we have sought and found a model who recueille the consent of the whipped and of the Opposition to the Senate .
I believe that we should refer today today the bill of bill to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology .
you if is heard for that the Committee convey his work and the convey with haste , pursuing that he gave all the opportunities of hear the witnesses that he Justice necessary of call .
as the question has been raised during the debate , the proposal transpired that the Committee contemplated of present a report in two parties or two reports separate not has not so of importance .
the Committee sonderait the opinion of his members and if decide then .
we are aware of the soon parliamentarians that demands the participation of the other place .
I am in legislation of say that the Opposition not opposera no barrier for do know to the other place that a good report has been prepared and a excellent decision taken by the Senate .
for this who is of the procedure , seen that I have the speak , I if happy of propose a motion , to least that a other Senator not means speak on the question .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I better can - be indication that the senators of this side - side are prepared to amend the motion , order of remove the mention of the date of Presented of the report and , of the even suddenly , remove the referred to the Committee Whole .
having heard the senators Murray and Kinsella , I believe that this not is not necessary for we .
by therefore , I accept that the motion not contains not of such elements .
if this is this that the Senator Kinsella has in head , I not me there objects not , I am of agreed .
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I request a confusion , because I must splendours that I not understand not very well this that you we request .
how the witnesses , who are impatients of speak of this bill of bill according the Senator Kirby , hand - they help the Committee to study the subject of the bill of bill ?
I not see not this that all these witnesses , who have of the representations to grave to the regard of lapartie 1 or 2 or of a section whatever , able contribute if the subject is referred to the Committee .
I not understand not this that we tried of do .
I not want not brouiller the cartes , but he me seems that we should proceed in two steps .
then , the witnesses if pr?senteraient before the Committee for speak of the bill of bill him - even .
if we we transformons in Committee Whole , the witnesses who have appeared before the Committee student the subject of the bill of bill hand - they return before the Committee Whole for speak of the bill of bill him - even ?
I like have of the clarification to the about of the process and of the procedure that you we request of follow .
is - this this that the government wish ?
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I could can - be answer .
all that is enough new for me , but I had the same concerns that the Senator .
he if is here of a question of procedure .
if the bill of bill must stay to the step of the second Reading , then his second Reading must stay placed to the Paper .
for that the bill of bill rest recorded in second Reading to the Paper , he must stay before the Senate .
the motion is introduced as she the is for that the Committee can study all the aspects of the bill of bill , including his subject , this is - to - say the extension of the bill of bill , and for that the bill of bill rest to the step of the second Reading , this who meets to the concerns address by our opposite - to - opposite to the about of the Division of the bill of bill , this question not having not still been resolved .
the motion allows of proceed to the review of the bill of bill without do of entorse to the procedure .
we have the majority of this side - side , but you have the tools of the yours .
the purpose of all that , this is of try of have a solution in under of the section 38 rather that of the section 39 .
he seems that all will very well .
I hope well that a motion will introduced .
for the reasons that I have mentioned , I not think not that the bill of bill or his study not will compromise of the fact that the Committee will before of the subject of the bill of bill rather that of this last in as that such .
the Senator Murray :
honourable senators , if you the let , I pretend that the referred of the subject of a bill of bill to a Committee is exactly the even something that this that we had used of do when the study pre was Cabinet to the Senate .
course , we not could , on the plan of the procedure , refer a bill of bill to a Committee before of the have received of the House of the Commons .
however , a time that the bill of bill was tabled to the House of the Commons , for facilitate his study to the Senate , we communiquions the subject of the bill of bill to the Committee councillors .
extend - side entendait of the witnesses as if he had been before of the bill of bill .
he knowing then report to the Senate .
we were all to fact free , when we were before of a bill of bill , of refer extend - side to a Committee and of hear of other witnesses .
more often that words , before even that the bill of bill we be referred by the House of the Commons , we had already obtained satisfaction of the share of the government further to the amendments , including .
the step of the study in Committee not was often made that for the form , but the formula that we doubt to the Senate , and who sounds to the study of the subject of the bill of bill that move the Senator Hays , has long had during to the Senate .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
honourable senators , I not have never heard speak of a situation where the Senate has fact the study pre of a bill of bill who had already been adopted to the House of the Commons .
the Senator Murray :
not , but he there has a sure number of precedents by report to this that the Senator Hays move .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
the Senator Hays has proposed that the Committee if circumstances on the question , but that the bill of bill rest here .
the Senator Murray :
this is exactly , and he there a precedent to this regard .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
is - this to say that the witnesses who extensive before the Committee must if settle of speak of the about , or able - they , of any way , takes in Freshwater a copy of the bill of bill ?
the Senator Murray :
not , they not discuss not of constraint to this regard .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
are - you in considering of say that all that not is that a fa?ade ?
the Senator Murray :
he if is of a mechanism of procedure .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
I not see not who fate winner of that .
why d?ploierions - we of the efforts in two steps , then that , in reality , he not if Glenney that of a only and even effort ?
if I am the only to not not understand , I want well me nothing immediately .
I not understand not why the about of a bill of bill whose the Senate is before is referred to a Committee who wholeheartedly of the witnesses speak of the about , then that , in reality , this is of the bill of bill whose they want speak .
can - they speak of the bill of bill even if extend - side not has not been referred to the Committee ?
I not understand not this part of the procedure .
the Senator Forrestall :
he if is of the even bill of bill .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
why then not not refer the bill of bill and in conclusion a time for all ?
I not trying not of help the government .
I want simply understand the procedure and facilitate the things .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , you has Order to this mechanism of procedure for hold account of the reserves of the Senator Murray .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
that me satisfy , then .
the Senator Hays :
we could refer the substance of the bill of bill , but he believed better the read for the second time and the refer as we the do of usual .
we have been in communication with the author of the bill of bill and Main obviate , to know the Senator Murray , in opposite .
we in are upon to the proposal , who is essentially a agreement reached of way transparent on the photographs of the Senate , to the held of put the senators before a fact accomplished , this who would without doubt raised many of other questions to share of similar of the Senator Staunton - Lynch .
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , a brin of creativity is always the welcome .
the Senator Hays has tried of be losing .
however , we have believed wise of hold our discussion to the Senate for that all the world understands exactly this that we Campaign .
a great advantage of this way of do , this is well course that , if the two sides of the Senate have a opinion serious and free on the question of know if this bill of bill contains more of a principle , you able arrive to the essential through to this that say the witnesses .
we able therefore be owe by the Committee before of we deal on the principle of the bill of bill .
according a assumption , in fact , that help to solve the problem if the Committee recommended of scinder the bill of bill .
if the bill of bill became with of the proposals of amendment , that solve can - be the problem .
of many opportunities if business to the Committee .
this is a way plan of deal the question .
the Senator Hays cite can - be present now his motion .
referred of the substance of the bill of bill to the Committee
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , notwithstanding the notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) e ) of the Rules , I move :
that the substance of the bill of bill C - 6 , Act designed to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of means Electronic for communicate or registering of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the Instruments regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws , be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology ; and
that he be fact report in two consistently : the Prime on the part 1 and the second on the parties 2 to 5 of the bill , and that the debate on the second Reading gave held by the following .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
the hon. Consiglio Di Nino :
honourable senators , I wishes obtain a clarification .
I not have nowhere intention of delay this case .
must - he the unanimously or simply a majority of the Senators ?
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , the term to leave to under - committed the unanimously .
not important what Senator could interrupt this process in denying of me give the leave of put the motion to the Senators .
this is therefore say that he must the unanimously .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , the permision is - she granted ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , if you me in donnez the leave , I reiterate to the Order of the notice of motion .
account held of the motion who just all fair of be agreed , I request the leave of the Senate order of Authorize the Committee to if meet today today to 15 p.m. 30 for discuss strictly of the list of the witnesses .
we could then begin to hear the witnesses tomorrow to the hour usual , be to 11 p.m. .
to my notice , the Committee cite discuterun little order of be in legislation of establish a calendar of the evidence .
I like that we we occupions of this question to the opportunity of our sitting due , who has lieu? 15 p.m. 30 today today .
by therefore , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) has ) of the Rules , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology can sit today today the Wednesday 24 November to 15 p.m. 30 even if he if can that a sitting of the Senate be then in during , and that the application of the subsection 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I wish to raise a small question .
I believe understand that the hon. Senator has took the speak for ask the leave of return to the notice of motion .
before that the leave of return to this Order him gave been granted , he has proposed his motion .
I not have not of objection to give the leave demand?e to the Senator Kirby in the two case .
however , we should be aware that he there would should there have a process in two steps .
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , this is the second time today today that we effectively to a Committee the leave of sit in even time that the Senate .
hence this that I move to the government .
we should meet the lag of the Wednesday and subtly of closing the d?bat? 15 p.m. 30 or 16 p.m. , little important where we in are in the study of the subjects enrolled to the Paper .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
bill of bill of 99 on the implementation in implement of conventions tax
second Reading
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Hervieux - Hervieux , C , seconded by the hon. Senator Robichaud , C ( Conformity Acadie - graduated ) , that the bill therein S - 3 , Act rigour in implement a agreed , of the conventions and of the protocoles concluded between the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzb?kistan , the Syria , the Japan and the Luxembourg , in view of avoid the duplicates Socialist and of prevent the evasion tax in Equity of taxes on the income , be read a second time .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I am very Whip that the auteure of the bill of bill be still healthy today today and not can not speak of this bill of bill .
yesterday , I have listened the comments of the Senator Staunton - Lynch regarding the bill of bill S - 3 .
he has open his speech by a note very important .
that affects the record in Equity of respect of the rights of the human of a of the country participating of this treaty , to know the Ouzb?kistan .
he me seems , honourable senators , that the question serious who should be to the spirit of all the honourable senators is of know if , in as that country , we want send a signal and draw the attention of the authorities of the Ouzb?kistan on their record in Equity of respect of the rights of the human .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch has quoted two reports of Brethour Zinn AsiaWatch who parlaient of abuses document?es of the rights of the human and signalaient also that our own Department of the Affairs foreign had in his possession a sure number of documents relating to the record unacceptable of this country in Equity of respect of the rights of the human .
honourable senators , notwithstanding our policy foreign of commitment positive whose we have the opportunity of speak of time to other in this chamber , he is question in this case - side of a relationship bilateral .
he me seems that if the commitment positive must mean what that this be , he powerful many if we could say to a country that we are saddened , but that we not are not loans to sign a treaty with him to because of his record within in Equity of respect of the rights of the human .
this is exactly the reason for which we exclude this country of the application of the bill of bill S - 3 .
honourable senators , the question of abuses concealment and regular of the rights of the human not is not a something that we should take to the lightly in as that society free and democratic .
as the honourable senators the know , the resolution 1503 of the Nations Nations talking directly of the abuses concealment and regular of the rights of the human and of the obligation of all the members of the community international of take of the measures positive and of contribute their support direct for eliminate this type of abuses of the rights of the human .
honourable senators , this is a opportunity in gold for the Canada of start a message very clear and hon. .
we can say that we not retardons not the implementation in implement of treaties to the regard of several country Treaty by this bill of bill , but only in this who respect this country in particular , to because of his abuses yearly , concealment and regular of the rights of the human .
that we allow of say that we not wish not conclude a treaty with this country .
honourable senators , that we cementing the focus on the conventions of Vienne Authorize on the implementation in implement of the treaties international or on some of the treaties international dealing the rights of the man , as the Covenant international relatifaux rights civilians and political or the Covenant international relatif to the rights economic , social and Cultural , this are all of the treaties that the Canada , to the namely of many of other country of the world , has conclude , adopted and developed in implement and we should bringing attention to the rights of the human planned in these treaties .
honourable senators , I thank the Senator Staunton - Lynch of have drew our attention on the fact that the government of the Canada move that we concluions a treaty with this country particular in under of the even right botulinum who has chaired to the conclusion of other treaties that we have conclude in Equity of rights of the human .
I think therefore , honourable senators , that he is angry important that this House convey clear know his Position .
we can decide or well of propose a amendment to the step of the second Reading , before of refer the bill of bill to a Committee , or well , this who would better advised , now that we have raised officially this question , of refer the bill of bill to a Committee of way to this that the senators members of the Committee if emparent of the question that has raised our colleague , the Senator Staunton - Lynch , and if constraint that of the representatives of the Affairs foreign and of other witnesses craft before the Committee .
the honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I like ask a question to the hon. Senator .
I not have or heard or read the speech of the Senator Staunton - Lynch , but the principle that he stared is very interesting .
he we is came of have of the trade to this about , not only here , but in of other representations .
he if focuses on a country particular .
the hon. Senator means - he say that , before of adopt a legislation bilateral in Equity of tax , we should , as the doing of time in time the States - United , examine the performance of each country part to this agreed in this who respect the rights of the human ?
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator Grafstein of his question .
I Albertan in a Prime time that I not see not of disadvantage to this model of monitoring of the rights of the man .
the experience research in of many country , including to the States - United , who the have essay?e under the regime Carter , if is slaughterhouse probante , as you the would liked .
I accept to reluctantly the principle of the commitment positive .
I hesitant for the good reason that I not know not who if admit behind this Administration public .
in the protocoles who gouvernent the conduct of our officers of trade or of our officers to the abroad , I not see nothing who the makes to indication by wrote , in their reports apartment or annual , the number of time where they discuss raised the question of the rights of the man , for that we can exercise a followed administrative force and check the effectiveness real of this commitment positive .
well that the principle me paraisse acceptable in theory , I not believe not that he be of application Universal .
in the case who we nat , he if is of a convention tax specific .
he if is of a agreed bilateral .
the bill of bill covers many of country to the number describes if in find unfortunately a who we makes to examine the question .
in second held , I wish that we hurt of a precision surgical in this who has relates to these agreements bilateral .
I examinerais for my share the history of each country in Equity of rights of the man and I d?ciderais in service of this that I chair observed if I wish or not to give following to the agreed the regarding , or still if I not like not use this instrument of our policy foreign for draw their attention on the problem .
the Senator Grafstein :
as must the know the Senator , the States - United have adopted a system , that we not have not still fact ours - well that he seems that such be the intention of the new Minister of the Affairs foreign in his new policy on the security human - in under wherein a assessment Annual is instituted by country , sometimes by region , of the abuses choquantes of the rights and freedoms of the individuals .
the Naturalization of state the attention regularly and they doing the subject of debates in the two Houses of the Congress American .
we have favourite not not follow this model .
we have decided deliberately of not not do of links .
I not know not what side of the became I finirais not adopt to the light of the new policy of security of the persons who has been worded by the Minister responsible of the Affairs External and who has been r?it?r?e by the Prime Minister .
however , if we must we Services in this seaway , he would generally preferable of hold a debate here order of allow to all the honourable senators of in come to a conclusion further to the seaway to follow , to the held of we in take to a country in particular councillors by a bill of bill .
I discredit for the first time a suddenly of helpful quick to the bill of bill and I note that he there has a or two or can - be even three other country - and I getting well attention to this that I say in the actions - to comments describes you can probably affirming the even something , of after of the sections of newspapers , in speaking of a form abrogating of abuses concealment of the rights of the human .
I congratulate the hon. Senator of in opposite of have raised this question .
before of we put to adopt of the solutions of exception , I rather that he convey of the comments for know if we should participate or not to this debate and see if we not should not examine systematically under this contempt the bills of bill of this nature .
I prestige then more rassurant of operate according a framework pr??tabli to the held of proceed according the inspiration of the time .
the Senator Kinsella :
a something who me just to the spirit in response to the question of the hon. Senator , this is that he is necessary of respond drew to the abuses of the rights of the human occurred to the bad showing .
when you if in makes account very clear , he must act for refute these abuses of the rights of the human by bad showing .
in the case of a type syst?mique , institutional or historic of discrimination , I am fully of agreed with you .
he must have a policy more deliberately and more general .
that respect all the aspects of the policy international , there including the trade international and the dynamic of the interest national .
gold , in all the case of abuses of the rights of the human , he not is not necessary of expect a improvement of the situation of the rights of the human for apply to a situation empoisonn?e a kind syst?mique or institutional of solution .
he there has of the case where the you can see clear this kind of violation and if there attack directly .
I not believe not that this treaty be essential for the interest of the country .
he could however be interesting because that he is always good of have of the treaties with several country .
however , the Parliament could certainly draw many of attention if he announced that he account exclude a sure country .
he is sure that of the discussions official have had held before that the bill of bill in sometimes to this step and of the questions have should be raised .
the officials if Pakistani also on our discussions and our debate of this after - afternoon and they if features account that the Canadians taking the standards Impediment to the rights of the human to the seriously .
the hon. Consiglio Di Nino :
honourable senators , I like continue in the even vein that the Senator Kinsella .
I am of agreed with him .
honourable senators , I believe that we should we dealt on the question .
the debate of yesterday 1 well to our discussion of today today because that we talking of a relationship bilateral with a sure number of States different .
we have concluded of the agreements , of the protocoles and of the conventions similar with almost all the country to the world .
the Senator Kinsella has indicated that deal with the state who fact the subject of the debate froisse his sense of the to - comments , because he if is of a state known for have violated the rights of the human .
however , I believe that the Senator Kinsella appropriate that of the tens of country have the even sad record .
I like also me ensure that we understand that he not if is not simply of sign a agreed .
he if is of sign a agreed who provides the Exchange of information on of the companies and of the individuals therefore that on the Affairs of the Canadians with some of these country foreign .
that me concern , because , very frankly , I not getting not confidence to some of these States for that these information remain negotiates .
if I getting of the Affairs with a of these States , as this is the case currently for the society Talisman to the Sudan , I better accept the risk that some information that my country current to the government soudanais to my about and to the about of my company not ensure not also danger that they the would in under of the bill of other country of the world .
this is a other aspect that we should examine more carefully .
I have raised this question yesterday because that , he there has several months , we have had case to a bill of bill similar to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign and we have asked the same questions that today today .
I not have not the Appendix that we news never obtained of Questions .
to my notice , the Committee qualified to examine this bill of bill is the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
we can repeating the comments that have made the senators Staunton - Lynch , Kinsella and Grafstein and continue of ask to the representatives of the Department of answer to the questions that we have raised the last time that we have examined a bill of bill similar .
the hon. LoisM. Wilson :
honourable senators , I am pleased that the Leader of the Opposition gave raised this question .
she if recorded in the new debate on the Position of the Canada to the regard of the rights of the human .
you has mentioned that the Ouzb?kistan , of even that the Sudan and several other country , Ministry a problem .
he seems that you examine these case of way chronic .
I am of notice that you not can apply a policy general who convienne to all the country .
sometimes , of the sanctions are cut ; sometimes , you adopt a policy of commitment positive .
he can ceased different strategies applicable to different country .
I think that the Senate has need of a gallery for urge these questions .
the Committee who agreeable in this case - side is can - be the Committee of the Affairs foreign , and not the Committee of the Banking .
he must examine that , be here , to the during of a debate full , be in Committee .
I hope that the Committee referred this bill of bill will referred examine seriously the question and in will share to the Senate .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not like not prevent of other senators of address this question , but the senators whipped like that this bill of bill be referred to a Committee .
as he has been presented here , he must be submitted to the approval of the House of the Commons .
I suppose that he would relatively easy of there contribute a amendment , in this sense that , if we supprimions , by example , the word Ouzb?kistan , he not we would not business .
the Department of the Affairs foreign plays a role to the regard of these treaties , but he in will of even for the Department of the Finance and for Revenue Canada , since this are of the conventions tax .
if the comments held to the during of the debate are correct , and I not have no reason of in douter , we should we ask why we should negotiate a convention tax with a country who has a sad record in Equity of rights of the human .
why conclude a treaty with this country ?
the persons the more qualifi?es for answer to this question are the officials who have rigorous the treaty , who the have concluded .
further to the question who concern the Senator Di Nino , to know to what Committee this legislation should be referred , I have asked of the information on this who if fact of usual .
of any obviously , the legislation could be referred to the Committee of the Banking or to extend of the Affairs foreign .
he if can that the Committee of the Banking , after have examined the bill of bill , the refer to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
of any way , of after this that I have heard to the during of the debate , the study of this bill of bill not if will not without that the you valid the questions that we have heard here .
this is to the Committee that these questions must if ask .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
pleasure - he to the senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill is read a second time . )
referred to the Committee
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a third time ?
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I move that the bill of bill S - 3 be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
pleasure - he to the senators of adopt the motion ?
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I attention that the last treaty tax whose we have been before , the bill of bill S - 16 , has been referred to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
he captured the Vietnam , the Croatia and the Chile .
the Committee of the Affairs foreign has fact of the recommendations interesting on , between other things , the protection of the information personal and the ability of the country participating of put in implement with success the parties of the treaty .
he would pity of rompre the interparliamentary that the you find in the report of this Committee in mean of the bills of bill of nature similar to a other Committee .
I urge the Leader Deputy to reconsidered the question and to propose that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , for this who is of the precedents , to the during of the sat Parliament , two measures legislation regarding of the conventions tax , the projetsde bill C - 105 and S - 2 , have been examined by the Committee of the Banking .
in the second session of the sat Parliament , a treaty tax , the bill of bill C - 37 , has also been examined .
he has also been referred to the Committee Senate of the Banking .
some have can - be a better memory that me on this about , but I must say , in any plain , that you me has explained that the bill of bill had been referred to the Committee of the Affairs foreign because that the Committee of the Banking was surcharg? of work .
this is why , according me , the majority of the bills of bill , exception made of the bill of bill S - 16 , have been removed to the Committee of the Banking .
honourable senators , if the Committee of the Banking fact well his work , he able cerner all problem similar to those that the honourable senators have raised , in the framework of the debate on the bill of bill S - 3 .
to the need , you able recommend that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee of the Affairs foreign for there be more ample examined .
I underscored still a time on the fact that he if is of a bill of bill centuries of the Senate .
this not is not a bill of bill that we have received of the House .
we have a little more of flexibility to this regard .
I think that the fact of refer traditionally the treaties tax to the Committee of the Banking is useful because that the taxation is a aspect important of this bill of bill .
this is the aspect the more important of the bill of bill , but if he is question of a country with which we not want not do case to because of his file in Equity of respect of the rights of the human , that becomes a other aspect important .
a country has been appointed , and of other the will to the during of the debate .
however , the better way of proceed in this Equity introducing to study of first the considerations tax , then , to the need , to study the legislation to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
the hon. Consiglio Di Nino :
honourable senators , I think that this not is not very important to what Committee this bill of bill is referred .
however , met given that the bill of bill treating primarily of the relations bilateral between two country , the Committee of the Affairs foreign could be extend who would the more qualified to the examine .
can - be the Leader Deputy of the government will he of agreed with the recommendation transpired that the Committee studying the questions who have been raised to the Senate , be certainly the questions related to the rights of the human , but also the questions related to the confidentiality and the protection of the life privacy in the case of the trade of information with some of these States .
to my notice , we not have not examined these questions to extension the last time
the senators here attendance understand all the problem .
each of the committees can do the work and answer to the questions that we have raised .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , if the debate of yesterday and of today today must be took to the seriously , this are then these questions regarding the rights of the human to the wide international who Heads the attention during the debate of second Reading .
unfortunately , the sponsor of the bill of bill , who has underway the debate on the principle of the bill of bill , not if give even not the worthy of come debate the new questions and of we serve of guide .
I have found education the debate of the last days .
I have well obtained a report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign 115 of the 28 May 1998 . Conformity Senator Staunton - Lynch there has fact referring .
he if 13 of the faults bill S - 16 , who rakish to extend whose we are now before .
in the sixth report of this Committee , the members of extend - side have said have two major concerns .
of first , they have proposed that , before that the government of the Canada presented a bill of bill similar in the future , the Department of the Affairs foreign and of the Trade international give the insurance to the Senate that he has consulted to a pr?s?lection of the country participating for check their ability of implementation in implement successful of the agreements and conventions appropriate .
our Committee of the Affairs foreign if is already focused on this principle .
the Committee could very well decide that he must include in the bill of bill a clause on the respect of the rights of the human .
I believe that this would a legislation welcome and Progressive .
that framework all to fact with the direction general of our debate in second Reading .
the Committee of the Affairs foreign has already examined this solution in the case of a treaty similar .
I am of agreed with the Senator Hays on this that he has said to the about of the part tax because that the second recommendation dealt on the implementation in place of the systems of data tax necessary in the two country and on the protection of the information personal .
account held of the debate who has had held to the Senate , he would all to fact indicated that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee Senate of the Affairs foreign .
I like even propose a amendment , if I the can , to least that the Senator Hays not change of idea .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , to my notice , the bill of bill should of first be referred before the Committee of the Banking , who in ?tudierait the Main objective .
he could then be referred to the Committee of the Affairs foreign if this is this that the Senate wishes .
some arguments very valid have been raised .
I not have no objection to this that the Committee of the Affairs foreign studying the bill of bill , but he if could well that he there gave had a pr?s?lection .
he if could that he there gave a good reason of include this country or some other country .
the Senator Di Nino :
want - you parier a dinner ?
the Senator Hays :
I not am not player .
the bill of bill has been adopted in second Reading and I have asked that he be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade .
I not have no objection to amend my motion for that the bill of bill be referred to this Committee , then to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign for a other review .
if the Senate me in give the leave , I believe power amend my motion .
the Senator Kinsella :
with the leave of the Senate , you the can .
the Senator Hays :
I move that you add a note saying to pursuing that the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade convey this recommendation to .
this is therefore that I formulerais the motion .
the hon. LoisM. Wilson :
honourable senators , I if satisfied that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade , pursuing that the Leader Deputy the informed of the debate engagement by this question and of all this who if is past to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
when the members of the Committee common the bill of bill , they competition that these points have already been raised and they able the refer to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign .
can - we be amorphous that he in will therefore ?
the Senator Hays :
you must rely on the fact that our colleagues to the Senate read the Hansard .
I suppose that he is possible that some not the actually not also attender that you the souhaiterait .
I not am not sure of power local this that request the hon. Senator .
I me commitment to do all this that I can for that the chairman of the Committee of the Banking read the debate of today today .
I hope that he the lira .
I invite the hon. Senator to in discuss with him .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
Senator Hays , your motion door she Presented of first to the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade , and then to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign ?
the Senator Hays :
if the Committee of the Banking the recommends .
is - this acceptable ?
the Senator Kinsella :
this part not is not consistent to the Rules .
the Order must come of the Senate .
the Senator Hays :
I me in tiendrai therefore to my recommendation modified .
I move therefore , with the leave of the Senate and pursuant to the section 30 of the Rules :
that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade and that , a time the study of this Committee completed , he be then referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign for review to this place .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
question of privilege
the hon. Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , I have given notice of my intention of raise the question of privilege to the about of the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications .
as you the know without doubt , honourable senators , this Committee Standing has been authorized to study the question of the restructuring of the industry of the transportation Air to the Canada pursuant to the Order of referred of the Senate in date of the 14 October 99 .
pursuant to the Order of referred , the Committee must present his report before the 15 December 99 . availability my Speaker , the Committee has held 8 meetings public during prompted he has heard 53 witnesses .
the week last , we have interrompu our hearings public and have began the study of the drafts of the report .
we in are now to the third array .
we have well took care of avoid that any publicity be made on our deliberations .
all the drafts were marqu?es to array to and to posterity to .
during of our meeting on the first array , I have took well care of distribute of the copies only to the senators attendance , copies that I have then resulting to the end of the meeting .
for the study of the second array , I have fact reach , the eve of our meeting , a copy to each Senator member of the Committee .
contrary to the meeting modified , doing confidence to the integrity of the senators and of their assistants and transpired their let the possible of reflect more length to the content of the report , I not have not r?cup?r? the copies of this second array of our report .
yesterday night , few p.m. to worthy after the meeting of the Committee , I have learned that a journalist of the Presse Canadian had in his possession a copy of the array statement 2 of our report .
the Soleil of Quebec , in his edition of this morning , publie a section wrote by this even journalist of the Presse Canadian in which you can read , and I quote :
in a report before be tabled tomorrow to the Senate , the members of the House high , Liberal and Conservatives , if are heard order of give to the carriers U.S. the Authorized of ensure the Liaison air between various destinations Canadian [ ... [
and the journalist , doing mention of the Committee of the transport and of the Communications , continues his section in writing :
of his side , the Toronto Star has also released today today a section in which you can read follows :
according our sources , you if expected to this that the Committee Senate , who is on the point of complete his report , move of bringing to 33,3p. per the form of the actions of Air Canada Brunswicker be backgrounds by a only actionnaire , which is currently of 10 per , and of bringing the form of the actions Brunswicker be backgrounds by of the interests foreign to 49p. per , against 25 per currently .
I am prepared to table , if necessary , a copy of the Quorum where the sections whereas have been reproduits .
honourable senators , this identifies door injured to the good conduct of the business current of the Committee of the transport and Communications .
well that the information ?tal?es today today in the media stem of a array of a report who not is always not finalis? , they continuously of teinter strongly the perception that will the public of our report final .
as I the have already said , our report not is not concluded .
we must still discuss of several points .
unfortunately , the identifies and the reactions that she provoquerait could entraver the reflection serene and enlightened of the members of the Committee .
beyond - beyond of the damage subis to the Committee that I have the honour of chairman , a such identifies is damaging to the together of the business of the committees of the Senate .
this is the confidentiality of our discussions who is in because , and , by the fact even , the ability of the senators to debate freely of the questions who we are r?f?r?es .
for do properly this that you we request , we must have the certainty that the work that we effectuons to camera closed rest posterity .
nothing of this who if is defenders in Committee not must be quarrels before that the Committee not gave fact report to the House .
in the even comment , you groups the comments following , and I quote :
step a injured to the privilege the fact of publish the deliberations of a Committee fairest to camera closed or of the reports of committees before that they not shifted been developed to the clause of the members .
he is surprisingly that a such something sometimes to the Senate , a institution responsible and transparent and who makes account publicly of his activities .
he is therefore unacceptable that you sente the need of pay availability to the media of the documents who , of any way , number been prominent public when the decisions Strategy number been taken .
unfortunately , this identifies just if add to of other events similar who if are d?roul?s recently to the within of our institution .
the 14 September last , the Senator Andreychuk has tabled a question of privilege that she has r?introduite the 13 October last to the about of a identifies who if would produced to the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal .
I hope that we know we ressaisir to time for put a term to these incidents who reassessed the credibility of our institution .
a atmosphere of respect and of coll?gialit? has always r?gn? to the within of the Committee of the transport and of the Communications .
I have a great respect for the members of the Committee .
this is why I am profoundly surprise that a such something can arrive .
I know how this identifies has could this produce .
I not know not if this is of way intentionnelle , accidentelle or by neglect .
however , this identifies has had held and step therefore , to my sense , a injured to the privilege of the Senate .
I request that you statuiez in this sense .
I happy then in legislation of present the motion next :
that the question be referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure for that he convey inquiry .
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I support the motion whose we are before .
a audit deposited of the senators of our side has product all the reports , we know where if find our copies .
I not intended human in particular .
the Senator Bacon has said that he could if act of a identifies by inadvertent or by neglect , or of a identifies deliberate .
this who is important , in the case present , is that the case be referred to the Committee , with the degree of priority that she deserves , order that he not there gave no doubt that you has respected the decency .
that we tirions the case to the clear or not important least that the risks potential .
in this report , we talking between other of the degree of control of Canadian by of the interests foreign or by a only actionnaire .
that could give held to of the sp?culations who could do wrong not only to the industry air and to the investors , but particularly to the confidence that the Canadians have opposite - to - opposite our institution and the manner whose she op?re .
the hon. Serge Joyal :
honourable senators , I like me associate to the comments of the senators Bacon and Forrestall .
I have the privilege of participate to the business of the Committee of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure .
the question raised by the Senator Bacon is of a some way already consideration to our Committee since the hon. Senator Andreychuk has already raised a question similiaire he there has someone time .
he there has therefore a virus in the system .
if of such situations if repetition to short completed , this is that he there has certainly of the persons in our group , you not knows not expelling , who not have not a idea specific of their responsibility .
I me deregulation of draw your attention on the way whose the Parliament of the Britain - Britain treating of the questions similar .
I like draw your attention on two decisions of the House of the Commons to London who have suspended pendant10 days , without salary , a member who had left the report of a Committee before that the Committee not gave authorized his disclosure .
this member , I the repeat , has been suspended during 10 days without salary .
in a other case , who has been released in October last , two members have fact the subject of sanctions of the share of the Committee of the House of the Commons British , extend who has asked the report and extend who the has given .
the two have been developed to the fined , the two have been suspendus for of the periods reasonable .
they have should if rise and present of the apologize to their colleagues to the House of the Commons British .
this question is taken extremely to the seriously in our system Parliamentary and in the tradition who we radical .
the reason in is simple , as the has explained the Senator Bacon , and I quote the comments of the Committee British :
this is to this step that of the pressure External could be orchestrated for influence the findings of the report .
if the less criticism properly to this regard , all the system of the committees special could be left in question .
no of our committees not could accomplish his task and do report to this House of a manner valid and responsible if , to the step important and crucial of the drafting of his reports , the drafts of those - side if subsidiarity to Dnieper , excusez the expression , to left and to right approvals
he is , by therefore , extremely important - and I problems my colleague , the Senator DeWare , who fact part of the Committee of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure - that these questions , who have been raised by the Senator Andreychuk and the Senator Bacon , carry do the subject of a study of the share of the Committee .
we could therefore we hear not only on the Ethics that we we engagerons all to follow but also , unfortunately , on the system of sanctions that we should put in place for if ensure that of the incidents unfortunate of this nature not if repetition more .
this is therefore in this looked , honourable senators , that I like support the comments of the senators Bacon and Forrestall .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I like add few words .
he is unfortunate that the question of privilege be raised to new to comments of facts almost identiques .
I talking , well course , of the question of privilege raised by the Senator Andreychuk deposited of the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure .
I add that she seems rather attributes , account held of the precedent where the Speaker , having to decide if a question of privilege was based , has quoted the comment 877 , to the page 250 of the sixth edition of the 286 Parliamentary of Beauchesne , who provides follows :
nothing of this who if is defenders in Committee not must be quarrels before that the Committee not gave fact report to the House .
and still :
step a injured to the privilege the fact of publish the deliberations of a Committee fairest to camera closed or of the reports of committees before that they not shifted been developed to the clause of the members .
in consequential , Your Hon. , that seems rather attributes and I you urge also to consider this case as based order that she be referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure .
the hon. Joan Fraser :
honourable senators , I want support me also the motion of the Senator Bacon .
this is the identifies and not the publication who is to condemn .
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I like participate very briefly to the debate .
the subject of this debate must be perfectly clear .
the debate intended to convince the Speaker that he there has canto and well had injured to the privilege and that she must give here the any first priority to this question .
for support this that her the Senator Bacon has said , I me congratulate of his initiative , and I the thank of have presentation the facts .
in of other words , the content of the bills of report not must not be quarrels to the media and to the public before the Tabled of the report to the Senate .
needless of the say , this problem seems return without constantly and even take of the magnitude , and he is obvious that he respectful our attention .
I attention that the Senator Andreychuk has raised a question similar the 14 September .
I believe have participated to this debate .
of new , the 13 October , the Senator Andreychuk has raised the even problem , and I him have managed awarded my support .
the true question who if valid to we , honourable senators , is similar of know if he there has pr?somption of injured to the privilege .
I conclusion to Your Hon. that of many senators seem be of this notice .
decision of the Speaker
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , if no other Senator not means take the speak , I rendrai my decision .
I like thank the Senator Bacon and all the honourable senators who have participated to the debate .
I me recall that the Senator Molgat , to the months of September last , had been before of a question similar .
I accept therefore the question of privilege raised by the Senator Bacon .
I move that the question be referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure for that he convey inquiry .
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. LoisM. Wilson takes the speak pursuant to the notice of inquiry following presented the 17 November 99 :
- honourable senators , of the 23 October to the 5 November last , a delegation of seven persons hosted by the Council Canadian of the churches has examined , with the assistance of the Department of the Affairs foreign and of the Trade international , the challenges faced our partners Chinese doing opposite in the practice religious in China .
the delegates , who represent the main churches chr?tiennes to the Canada , have widely puis? in their history institutionnelle centennial with their partners Chinese for study the protection of the freedom religious in China .
among the contacts ult?rieurs possible , notons a meeting between a delegation Canadian interconfessionnelle and a group interconfessionnel in China , and a meeting to the Tibet .
the delegation if is decided there in the spirit of the commitment positive , in the purpose of share of the points of view on the way whose of the laws dealing the freedom of religion can intellects the obligations international ensuing to the words of the two pactes of the Nations Nations relating to the rights of the man that the China contemplated of ratify .
the delegation accused that she knowing she - even following to a of the many agreements bilateral conclude between the Canada and the China and that she just complements the missions of assessment of the needs sent in China by the Upper Commissioner of the Nations Nations to the rights of the man , Mary Packwood .
that offer a program overall of cooperation technical in the Administration of the justice , the reform legislative and of other areas of the rights of the human .
during these two weeks , the delegation has visited six cities and discussed of questions with a broad range of representatives of the church and of the government , there including the under - Minister of the Affairs foreign of the China and the steering of the Board of the Affairs religious .
the spreads Nations who identification primarily on the persecution religious in China , the arrests and the d?tentions arbitraires , therefore that the abuses of the rights of the human , are substandard to across the prism of our culture .
the arrests of persons for of the grounds political are ensued without no explanation , if this not is that you specific that the involved have violated the bill Chinese , and this is generally perceived by the Canadians as a violation of the freedom of religion and of the rights of the man .
some of these spreads are without no doubt correct .
this is the side dark of the life of the communities religious in China .
however , you not specific never this that the laws and the regulations dealing the religion say and the reasons for expelling they have been developed in place and why of the sanctions are ensuing for those who the Farmers .
the provision of the Republic popular of China broadsides of a history substantially by the confucianisme , the revolution marxiste and the need of control , of ensure the stability and the Order in the management of a country who has 1.3 billion of population and a history and a context well different of the ours .
the delegation not has never visited a city who had least of 10 million of population .
the provision guarantees the freedom of belief of the citizens and protects the activities religious normal .
however , she not guarantees not the freedom of the croyants of appreciation or of allowed this belief and not define not not more this that you committed by the activities religious normal if this not is for say that human not can use the religion for if delivering to of the activities who perturbent the Order public .
this zone grise explain some of the limits that the Chinese impose to the freedom religious whose we differ speak in riel and , to because of this doubt , those who are mercy of administering the regulations , particularly in of the regions local very ?loign?es of Beijing , can exorbitant of these provisions .
the provision specific also clear that the agencies church not are not submitted to someone form of mother foreign that this be .
that keeps to the fact that the China redoute the intentions of the community religious international who has developed to difficulty his sovereignty in the past .
account held of the direction strongly privatized of groups church wanting of Zion only the salut individual in a country who efficiently many of price to the community , particularly when these groups come of Los Angeles or of Taiwan , they there are Raised as a meddling foreign .
two never of regulations created of ensure to this that the religion not trading not a source of d?stabilisation or of threat to the security national .
the regulations clauses of a interpretation according which the freedom is associated to of the rights actions ; in riel , however , you highlights more the focus on the rights individual .
each centre of activity religious is held of if supporter deposited of the government and of satisfy to six criteria , be rely a held of culte , a leader formed , a sure number of adh?rents , a Committee of management , a source legal of income and a behalf for a held of meeting .
he is important of attention that in China , all group social is held of if supporter deposited of the government , prerequisite who not if limit not to the groups church .
that if recorded in the fact that the you highlights the focus on the rights actions .
of fact , the Art of the Science Social of Shanghainese has said that the Christian were of good citizens Chinese .
our partners of the church protestante have formed the Council redemption of China , a church post - confessionnelle to the within of which the persons seniors if say of former Presbyterians , of former anglicans , and therefore of following .
this church is fully Chinese in the legislation where she hook his origins of the movement said to Three - Self Patriotic to , all as he in will of his Economy , of his Finance and of his covetousness .
the partners grab in the regulations a legislation of protection of their activities and a guarantee against any meddling of the share of Chinese not croyants , as that if is product during the revolution cultural .
through to this protection , the churches protestantes of China familiar a growth upwards and their Main problem introducing to ably enough of leaders of ability for satisfy to the request .
we have met a young wife who , by example , after have received a training of three months , is now loaded of the direction spiritual de1 100,000 persons .
well that minority in China , the Christian of this country are far more many that the Christian to the Canada .
the situation of the Catholic is different .
the churches Catholic parcels are d?sign?es under the behalf of church patriotique and they support the political governmental , by example the policy on the child single .
that night to the recruitment of the priests , since little of families accept that their only child choisisse this vocation , emp?chant the transmission of the behalf of family , even if their motto could be to Chinese and Catholic to share full to .
those who , by choice or by the force of the things , if Meetings for prier to the within of groups not registered can the do for several reasons : the allegiance of the croyants to a authority or a influence foreign ; the refusal of be confin? to a only held of meeting ; the refusal of if options to the authority of the association of the Chinese Catholic patriotiques or of the Council Chinese of the churches chr?tiennes ; or finally the acceptance of the education and of the practices h?t?rodoxes evidence of threaten the Order public .
he there has also the cultes .
the Chinese familiar very well the cultes who exist to the Canada and , to the Art of the Science Social , a professor we has smaller to the about of the culte known under the behalf of the to concludes of Toronto to , established almost of the airport Pearson and whose you have can - be already heard speak .
no of we not the knew directly , if well that we find we proud to of the you - said for answer to the questions .
the China has unamended a bill on the cultes the last day of our visit .
all our partners without exception , of even that the government , aware the Falun Gong as a organization d?stabilisatrice , nuisible and to influence foreign .
according them , this organization is very popular deposited of the Chinese least educated and more vulnerable , who are can - be still isolated of the modernization and of the benefits of the medicine modern .
our delegation not has not took Position on the Aristotle of the movement Falun Gong .
during of our meeting with the under - Minister of the Affairs foreign , Yang Jiechi , I have fact state of various concerns to the behalf of the Minister of the Affairs foreign of the Canada .
first , I have said that the Canadians if inqui?taient many of the arrests , of the d?tentions , of the bad treatment and of the abuse corporal to the adherents of the Falun Gong , whose the behaviour public has been not Farmers and copy during their observe ininterrompues .
since the Constitution confer to the citizens the right of believe or of not not believe , you has the Appendix , to the Canada , that the Constitution not is not respected .
further and how direct - they clear this that is a to activity religious normal to ?
second , the implementation in implement of the new bill on the cultes will she r?troactive ?
third , how the community international can - she be assured that the persons opinionated discuss right to a proceedings equitable and public ?
what scope have the two pactes of the Nations Nations , sign?s by the China in 1997 and 1998 , but not still ratifi?s , on the treatment vacancy to the members of the Falun Gong ?
these questions , of even that well of other that I not have not the time of raise during this short inquiry , not have always not found of Questions unsatisfactory , but business a possible of continue our cooperation with the China to the about of the freedom religious , account held of the conventions international .
we anticipate that he there will of other delegations and of other trade on the questions related to the faith and to the freedom religious and on the application of a policy regarding the religion , pursuant to the conventions international .
we feelings that this approach is more facility that a approach who raises of the fighting .
we hope welcome to the Canada a delegation of representatives of the Board of the Affairs religious for alters our understanding step of the relations between the church and the state and for ?lucider with them the mystery , to know why the Canada not has not need of a office of the Affairs religious .
we anticipate also welcome a delegation of researchers of the Art Chinese of the Science Social , who , of together with our academic , can alters our understanding step of the religion in a society not confessionnelle .
( on the motion of the Senator Wilson , to the behalf of the Senator Austin , the debate is adjourned . )
Peoples aboriginal
the Commission Royal of inquiry on the Peoples aboriginal - Autorisation to the Committee of study the recommendations and of apply the Crosbie and the evidence of the session modified to the study current
the hon. Charlie Watt , pursuant to the notice 23 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal be authorized to do a study and to present a report on the recommendations of the Commission Royal on the Peoples aboriginal ( document parlementairno 2 / 35 - 508 ) relatively to the service government aboriginal and more particularly , to obtain the point of view of the Peoples aboriginal and of the other involved on the questions following :
2 . the mechanisms necessary to the ushered of the new relations structurelles ;
3 . the models of self government aboriginal necessary for answer to the needs of the Peoples aboriginal and for concorder with the new relations structurelles ;
that the Crosbie received and the evidence heard on the question by the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal during the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament ensure An to the Committee ;
that the Committee tabled his report final to the more later 16 December 99 , and that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the Electronic of the results of his study contained in his report final , and this until to the 24 December 99 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices usual , to table his report deposited of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be reputation have tabled to the Senate .
( the motion is agreed . )
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of allow the Electronic of his deliberations by of the means electronic
the hon. Dan Hays , pursuant to the notice 18 November 99 , move , to the behalf of the Senator Kirby :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology be authorized to allow the meaning of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , I have a question on the motion No. 11 . If is - he of a Authorized permanent , be similar of t?l?diffuser all the business of the Committee according his good front , or of a Authorized for a end expresse only ?
the Senator Hays :
Senator Corbin , if I have well including , by this motion , the Senate step the Electronic of all the deliberations of the Committee by the media of information electronic , and not only the deliberations related to a study particular , and follows until to the prorogation .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee of Services of the staff
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , to the behalf of the Senator Kirby and pursuant to the notice 18 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , personnel , employees of office or other elements necessary for examine the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have been An .
( the motion is agreed . )
agriculture and Forestry
Authorized to the Committee of study the state present and the prospects of future of the agriculture
the hon. Fernand Robichaud , pursuant to the notice of the 23 November 99 , to the behalf of the Senator Fairbairn , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry be authorized to study the state present and the prospects of future of the agriculture to the Canada ; and
that the Committee convey report to the more later the 29 June 2001 .
( the motion is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee of study the state present and the prospects of future of the Forestry
the hon. Fernand Robichaud , pursuant to the notice of the 23 November 99 , to the behalf of the Senator Fairbairn , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry be authorized to study the state present and the prospects of future of the Forestry to the Canada ; and
that the Committee convey report to the more later the 29 June 2001 .
( the motion is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee of Services of the staff and of if adjourn
the hon. Fernand Robichaud , pursuant to the notice of the 23 November 99 , to the behalf of the Senator Fairbairn , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , personnel , employees of office or other elements necessary for examine the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have been An ; and
that the Committee be authorized to if adjourn to across the Canada and to the abroad to the purposes of such reviews .
( the motion is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee of allow the Electronic of his deliberations
the hon. Fernand Robichaud , pursuant to the notice of the 23 November 99 , to the behalf of the Senator Fairbairn , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry be authorized to allow the meaning of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate if adjourned to 14 p.m. tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 12
the Thursday 25 November 99
the hon. Rose - Marie Losier - Losier , Speaker Pro tempore
table of the Contents
the hon. P . Derek Lewis , Q Q .
tributes to the opportunity of his retirement
' ' '
the Late of Allan Austin Lamport , O . C .
tributes
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
fisheries
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
security and services of Intelligence
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Special
Economy Economy , Budgets and Administration
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
security of the transport
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Special
the adjournment
Affairs legal and Constitutional
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to sit in even time that the Senate
privileges , Rules and procedure
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Defence national
the Alternative of the canoeing of helicopters Sea King
the Alternative of the canoeing of helicopters Sea King - Position possible of ?vacuer the troops of the sectors chauds
the Alternative of the canoeing of helicopters Sea King - Request of copy of the statement of the needs
the industry
the ligue national of hockey - Position possible of a assistance government for the teams
Questions delayed to of the questions Oral
the agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Position possible of a program of credit agricultural - Conformity program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural - Conformity effectiveness of the program - Changes Payments to the claimants
the business of the Senate
Order OF orders
bill of bill of implementation in force of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the speech of the Throne
the Adresse in response - Motion rigour end to the debate the eighteenth day of sitting - Continued of the debate
the Act on the Parliament of the Canada
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the Union Monetary European
the report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign - Stands of the debate
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of study the facts new regarding the Assisted and the suicide attended
the situation of the aboriginal and their future
inquiry - Continued of the debate
Affairs legal and Constitutional
Authorized to the Committee of clerical of the services
Authorized to the Committee to according his deliberations by the media of information electronic
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
the SENATE
the Thursday 25 November 99
the sitting is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker pro tempore met to the Chair .
prayers .
the hon. P . Derek Lewis , Q Q .
tributes to the opportunity of his retirement
the hon. B . Alasdair Graham :
honourable senators , when Winston Churchill has released a Digest of his sections of newspapers and of magazine under the payments of Changes great courageous of 1938 , he there has joined a testimony on the life and the implement of Robert Baden - Powell that he said consider as a of the three more great broad that he gave known .
well heard , Baden - Powell , not was not that a General respected to the within of the forces Armed , he fonda also the movement world of the scouts .
Churchill wrote that the motto of the famous founder , to Sois prepared to is precipitancy by all as a invitation to do his duty .
respectful prepared to defend the right and the truth , against flying and mar?es .
honourable senators , in struck the documents spent to the wonderful career of the Senator Derek Lewis , Q Q . - a life public aside to the service and to the duty - , I have found how the influence of the baron Baden - Powell the had dismantling .
Derek has been during well of the years a of the pillars of the Boy Scouts of the Canada , having been during a time the Secretary of the organization national , and he in is today today a of the vices - chairmen honoraria to life .
the Senator Lewis , all the other honourable senators the know , is a human very modest .
some could even the described of Baden - Powell of Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
the legendary means that , to the then where the Senator Lewis servait in the boy scouts , the Senator Joan Cook , who is today today his next of Chair , was member of the guidance of Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
during these long years of service dedicated , the Senator Lewis has spent his efforts to the too of the full potential of the young and to the creation of citizens responsible - of the individuals to the values ax?es on the interest of the community and of their country - without never losing of view the community international .
the motto of Baden - Powell , to Sois prepared to or to Be Prepared to , who 1 to his robust and who means to respectful always prepared mentalement and physiquement to do lately duty to has been similar of this distinguished Senator that I have always been if proud of power described of real friend during all these years .
the Senator has been admitted to the Society of Newfoundland - Newfoundland in 1947 , two years only before that this nation , small but to how important , not wants of if join to the Confederation Canadian .
this year where we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of this union , we say unfortunately to the farewell to the a of his son and clubbers the more outstanding , a man who has developed all the ability of a people warmest , r?sistant and dynamic , the people of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , to the service of the life policy of this country .
placed St. John St. and lawyer respected , the Senator Lewis has brought his sense of the humour well known and his accuracy to negotiate and to do of the compromise to the Senate of the Canada during of his appointment in March 1978 .
when I have met the Senator Lewis for the first time through to the policy - a way standard of do knowledge for number of between we - Derek had been to Newfoundland - Newfoundland steering or advisor Main of many campaigns electoral federal .
the dedication and the reliability of the Senator Lewis are well known in this place .
he has been member of virtually all the committees who have been constitu?s by the Senate and was reputation for the way infallible that he had of work with the other members for arrive to a consensus on of the measures legislation often complex .
the list is long and impressive , and he is important of in do state .
during three years , between 1984 and 1986 , he has chaired the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , whose he is member without interruption since 1979 .
he has fact part of the Committee Standing of the Rules and of the procedure or , as you the Order since 1991 , of the Committee Senate Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure , during a period to little almost also long , be a little more of two decades .
the Senator Lewis has fact benefit of his very great know policy the Committee Standing of the regulatory and of the other Instruments regulatory .
he has chaired the Committee Joint Standing of review of the regulatory during the more great part of the presented decade .
he has often fact part of the Committee Joint of the impressions of the Parliament and of the Committee Joint Special of the reform of the Senate , who has been formed to the beginning of the years 80 .
to this list already strong long and remarkable just if add the participation of the Senator Lewis to the business of the Committee Joint Special on the Entente constitutional of 1987 and to the Committee Special of the bill of bill C - 110 ( changes Constitutional ) of 1994 to 1996 .
he not there has therefore not held of if surprise that this enactment Newfoundland - Newfoundlander to the spirit alerte and to the festival spontan? gave prior a of the best innuendo who ensure among all the persons having never served to the House .
he is renowned for the generosity with which he implementation his time , his soul and his energy to the service of his province and of his country .
in quality of Senator , he has always including that the Senate of the Canada , as I the repeat without constantly , is the held of work of the government , a NRTEE to the within wherein he if is win the respect and the admiration of all of the two sides of the House .
for Derek Lewis , who has fact as of volunteerism in the movement scout to the country , the seaway of the success if is always only r?sum?e to do his duty , to pagayer , as the has already said Baden - Powell , with his heart and his head and to be prepared , as the Senator Lewis the has always been , to defend faithfully the right and the truth , what that be the context .
right and truth .
duty and honour .
justice and equity .
these words d?crivent of way strong valid our colleague who we leaving .
he agreeable of highlight also the support of the wife of the Senator Lewis , the reinvent Grace , who is of the ourselves today today in the gallery of the visitors .
we are many in this chamber to have very long b?n?fici? of their friendship warm and of their hospitality generous .
all our wishes the accompanies in their new businesses .
the hon. C . William Doody :
honourable senators , I like to my turn add my good wishes to those views by my colleagues to the opportunity of the departure to the retirement of our friend Derek Lewis .
I known the Senator Lewis since 20 years and even before , to the then where we were went John St. .
this is a man who fate guarantee of the plain .
I then sincerely affirming that , during all these years , he not me has never been given of hear the less criticism or the less criticized to his conflict .
that is of many more remarkable that he has reconciling the right with success during any this period .
but the more remarkable still , this is that , addition his practice of the right with the success that the you knows , he has actively behind for the Party Liberal of the Canada , this that he continues of elsewhere to this day .
I not me recall not of a campaign election , federal or provincial , to which the Senator Derek not gave not participated actively .
in the victory or the defeat , Derek was always a gentleman , poli , well high , well developed and m?ticuleux to the exhaustion .
in fact , I have already heard say went John St. that the time the more embarrassant in the life of Derek , this is when he if is fact take a day with the cravate defeat .
little important the opportunity , that he commuting or that he perde , all his activities were always marqu?es by a nice affects of humour kind and sardonique who , according me , was particular to Derek Lewis .
to the Senate , I think that you if learned particularly of him for his work to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
the Senator Graham has very well enumerated , to fair payments , the broad range of activities experienced Derek has participated in this chamber .
he has merit a work invaluable to the Committee of the Affairs legal , and his great knowledge of the right therefore that his approach all to fact practice and deliberately to the regard of the business of the Committee and the tasks that you him included will difficult to replace .
the attendance of the Senator Lewis in this chamber is , well heard , a something whose we can all be proud and that we should trying of follow .
you not in talking not to my knowledge in the book of Claire Hoy , but I not me forward not to this that this kind of something draw many the attention of any way .
I have sat with Derek to the Committee Senate Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration during long and , there still , his work to the Committee not will not forgotten , particularly by your faithful .
the work of Derek to Newfoundland - Newfoundland in his profession has been dismantling by the even dedication and request of the detail .
his career in as that lawyer has been intrigued during long by his peers .
he has been advisor of the bec of the Law Society of Newfoundland of 1962 to 1978 .
he is became chairman of the Law Patron of Newfoundland in 1979 .
honourable senators , Derek Lewis discriminates the right in the province of Newfoundland - Newfoundland since 1947 .
this was little after the episode of the Confederation whose the Senator Graham has spoke .
I trying still of determine if Derek was in favour of the Confederation or not .
he refuses of the say .
sometimes , he said that he is a Canadian to reluctantly .
he the fact to the past , but I know exactly this that that means say .
I trying of discover to the fair if he was for or against , because , as the honourable senators if in recall , the vote was very tie and he there has can - be of the grounds for proceed to a new recount .
Derek Lewis has played a role active in the Affairs of our province and of our city .
his work deposited of the Boy Scouts of the Canada has been mentioned .
he is very recognized to Newfoundland - Newfoundland for that and for his work in the Game Fish Mammals Society of our province and in various other agencies volunteers who are very important for the evolution orderly of the society to Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
in effect , Derek has played a role active in almost all .
he has generously given his time each time that you the him has asked and we him in are all grateful .
I not inalienable not in the details of the work of the Senator Lewis for the Party Liberal , because the Senator Graham is many better opportunity that me for the do .
of elsewhere , that not appear not also flatteur filter of me .
I wish to Derek and to Grace of good years of retirement .
I included to that the expressed that he particulars break of the Party Liberal as of the Senate , and follows for of the reasons evident .
thank , Derek .
the hon. Joan Cook :
honourable senators , to those of between we who bilious to the life public in quarter that he is possible of contribute a change who guarantee a better quality of life to all , he enough of look my colleague and friend , the Senator Derek Lewis .
he diminish a force quiet , a uniqueness extraordinary and a intellect outside of the common .
as Derek not lack no opportunity of me the remind , the brevity is the soul of the intellect ; I pretend therefore simply that my association with his wife and him covers quelque30 years political agit?es .
the challenges have been many and diverse and we have known of the senior and of the lower .
if I ?crivais a book to this about , I can guarantee to the Senator Doody that this would a best - seller .
during this period , Derek was the tr?sorier provincial of the Party Liberal .
the candidates and the workers of campaign election who unleashing of the money believed all that with enough of money , they could win the victory .
I know that he has a patience of ange because that you the has very often developed to the unequalled in this sense .
each time that we were d?faits , Grace was always there , prepared to we comfort and to we do forget our worthy in we gavant of biscuits to the gingembre .
all of first , he said that you not could not do the impossible and then , that this not was not the money who Pedro the victory and that the you earned when the constituents had confidence in we .
also , I like repeating these words immortelles that has prononc?es gun Don Jamieson in speaking of the heritage of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , because that they you d?crivent if well :
Derek and Grace , I you wish of not never change and of have still during long the wind in the canoe .
the hon. Ethel Cochrane :
honourable senators , I am d?sol?e of see the Senator Lewis we leave .
I know that we have always served of the seats contrary to the Senate , but , filter all two of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , we have often been neighbours of seat in the flying and we have also often lived together of the delay and of the changes of itin?raire .
I not knew not the Senator Lewis before of arrive to the Senate .
he just of the Coast is of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and me of the Coast west , to more of 1 100,000 kilometres of distance .
the Senator Lewis me has many helped to spanning these first months .
he me has served of guide during this period and he has continued to the over of the years of me give of binge advice , and all that all to fact gratuitement .
I not have never seen the Senator Lewis d?prim? .
what that be the time to the outside or the concerns political to the within , you could always rely on Derek Lewis for we predated the moral .
he has a ability remarkable for if remind of the blagues and for the recount to the good time .
you not knows never to what if expect with him and he can recount the blagues the more dr?les without even esquisser a smile .
despite the spirit and the humour whose he knowing evidence deposited of his friends , Derek Lewis was always very test in public .
he has always maintained jalousement his life privacy and not has never sought to do great fanfare of his work and of his contribution .
he has installation well succeeded in his life public , in as that Solicitor of funds for the great Party Liberal , member of the executive national of his party and negligible faithful and seriously to the business of the Senate .
during of many years , he has served his party , the population of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and of the Labrador therefore that the Parliament of way effective and effac?e , without never seek to put in flagship his own accomplishments .
before of be appointed to the Senate , Derek Lewis was a distinguished lawyer who practised went John St. .
he was enormous respected and admired in his environment .
to the beginning of his career , he if is associated to Finton Aylward and to John Crosbie .
this is therefore a Liberal satisfied who if is associated to the very Conservative Finton Aylward , became by the following Justice to Newfoundland - Newfoundland and to the Labrador , and to a young John Crosbie , who has known a proceed career in as that Minister to the within of a government Conservative federal and who is today today Chancellor to the University Memorial .
who knows this that Derek Lewis would accomplished if he had seen clear during his Youth and had changed of allegiance policy ?
I am course that his colleagues of this study if join to we for contact their best wishes to Derek .
Derek and his wife , Grace , persons a home on the Lake Hogans , went John St. .
I know that , during the been , they unhappy if baigner all the legalities in this Lake .
I hope that they continue of advantage of the Lake Hogans and of all the other snow of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and of the Labrador during of long years .
god you b?nisse , Derek .
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , this is a day sad for the Senate that similar where we must say Adieu to a colleague as the Senator Derek Lewis , who has enormous contributed to the business of this Assembly during more of 20 years .
he if is undefeated a place special to the Senate , as by the work that he has accomplished that by his influence on of the persons as me - even , the Senator Cochrane and as of other , who have canvassed his advice and his support in their efforts for better understand and do doctrine our role in this chamber .
the Newfoundland - alter , and more particularly the Senator Lewis , Whelans to the Parliament and in all case to the Senate a point of view and a attitude well different of those of the other provinces , a sort of fra?cheur Shipping who keeps to their history , similar of the last province to if be attached to the Confederation , this that she has fact the 31 March 1949 , to midnight least ten .
we have many learned of our colleagues of Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
we the have truthfully discuss of the benefits and of the inconv?nients of their new nationalit? .
I have certainly b?n?fici? of the intensit? of the patriotism that they have brought to the Canada without abandon a once of the emotion and of the pride who belongs to their home attends .
Derek Lewis not is not a great parleur ; this is a man of action .
he listening and he evaluated .
when he finit by take the speak , that this be to the Senate or to the very many committees where he has sat , he the fact with care , wisdom and brevity .
I have also noticed to the over of the years that he not l?che not .
he is as a terrier with a routine , if he believe that a witness or a colleague admit someone something or esquive a question .
I the have took during of the years for model to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
when of great and difficult problems have surgi to the Senate in the file constitutional of the changes to contribute to the system school of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , he me has given of very asset advice .
the Senator Lewis is a jurist who has been described by none other that his extraordinaire land - neuvien , John Crosbie , as to a man quiet , but a great spirit legal to .
he not hesitant not not more to in do the d?monstration .
he not was hardly more that a noviciate to the Senate that he attempting of change our institution in as that member of the Committee Joint Special of the reform of the Senate , under the Speaker of our Speaker present , the Senator Molgat , in 1983 .
the Senator Lewis has also m?tamorphos? the Committee Joint of the review of the regulatory , to the business before oratorical and even incompr?hensibles of the notice of some , in a form of art , causant of the dismay in some sector home of the people who if were endormis in a false security in quarter that human not there pr?tait really the less attention .
as of other the have fact pointed , the Senator Lewis has been member of almost all the committees important of the Senate ; all recently , he was the a of the personnagescl?s of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign .
however , in despite of his great experience and of his achievement sense of his responsibilities to the Senate , this is of his kindness , of his generosity , of his sense precinct of the justice and of his compassion others those who are least fortunate that we whose I me retirees when I penserai to my friendship with the Senator Lewis .
well that he gave before with enthusiasm the opportunity of serve the public , he not has never forgotten of where he just not more that the needs and the force of the population of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , his province well - rock , who him voue a great admiration .
of elsewhere , to the within of my own party , the Party Liberal , you not will not went John St. without call Derek .
what that be his reminder of work , or the time , he is always there for you .
I have bross? a picture rather ang?lique of my sir colleague , but I bring also pointed that he has a sense of the humour endiabl? , that this is a great storyteller , and that he not d?daigne not a good rasade of rhum .
he has said that the human that his retirement leadership the more is his wife Grace , who the has always seconded without d?faillance , even when he if is launched in a new career who him has fact leave the Island regularly , week after week , during the two past decades .
that in said long on the links who the bonds .
I their wish to all two of many years of happiness together .
Derek not has not still decided to what challenges he going now if attack , but , what that they ensure , I the encourage to not not abandon the tricot .
honourable senators , the Senator Lewis is born to Newfoundland - Newfoundland in 1924 .
after his studies of right to the University Memorial , went John St. , he is admitted to the bec of this province in 1947 .
he discriminates the right went John St. to the cabinet Lewis , Day , Cook The Sheppard .
in 1961 , he wife Grace Knight .
in 1964 , he is appointed board of the Queen ; he is advisor of the Society of Newfoundland - Newfoundland of 1962 to 1978 .
he is appointed to the Senate in 1978 .
the Senator Lewis is a lawyer of the practice privacy .
this fact has interns and dismantling his life .
since his came to the Senate , he was during of the years a member strong active of the Committee of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , where his excellent reputation not is more to do .
the Senator Lewis has chaired the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , of 1984 to 1986 , has co the Committee Joint of the review of the regulatory , of 1994 to 1997 , and has been member of this Committee during of many years .
he has also sat to a number performance of other committees : the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure , the Committee of selection , the Committee Joint Special on the reform of the Senate , of 1980 to 1983 , and the Committee Joint Special of the Senate and of the House of the Commons on the Entente constitutionelle of 1987 , in 1987 and in 1988 , between other .
you has said that his great contribution of the Senate , this are his business for improve of the measures legislation and his business in Committee .
the Senator Lewis is a man of Committee and a great expert in Equity of laws .
I wish to the thank sincerely .
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , let - me of share with you few other stories to the about of the hon. Senator Derek Lewis , to begin by the time where we we are related of friendship , I believe .
you if would believed in a conte of Edgar Allan Poe : to revision a night monotone , where I broyais of the black ... to
well course , the hour not was not all to fact also unbecoming , but I was only in my office , to the mezzanine of the Senate , approximately four months after have been appointed to this House , and I commen?ais to in have a little marre .
this night - there , you has struck doucement to the door of my office .
this was the senators Lewis and Bonnell .
Derek has said : to We Pension you find still here and we we ask if he you plairait of we participating in China . to
he not had virtually not ran his sentence that I had the paletot on the walk and that I franchissais the door .
since this day , Ross and me are scarce of the friends sincere , I believe , of Derek and of the to Eyes Grace to .
in fact , we shock of the see too little since few years , because that she is very dynamic .
I have appreciate all the times that we have tenure together .
he was always present and usually to the hour .
he former until to the any end of each sitting .
each time that the interrogation of a client innocently to languir , he possession a question who ranimait the discussion and who newcomers a perspective totally new on the bill of bill to the study or can - be even a assure unforeseen .
all chairman of Committee knows to what point he is important that the good motion be introduced to the good time , and you could always rely on Derek for that .
his sense of the to - comments has always been absolutely idea and his notice on the deliberations of the Committee , perfectly reliable , because , as of other the have already said , his know of Clerk is fault .
as all the Newfoundland - alter of more of 50 years , Derek has developed of the time to become Canadian .
in effect , he the is became to his body defending .
I believe that he has voted to the least a time against the entry of Newfoundland - Newfoundland in the Confederation .
in fact , he amorphous that this was a very bad idea .
a time that the Canada is joined to Newfoundland - Newfoundland , however , he if is interested to the policy Canadian with enthusiasm - with sometimes a little too of enthusiasm , can - be .
Derek , I hope that you ?crivez a book .
not let not that to the Senator Cook !
racontez the frasques to the world , the time where you have Algonquin the ordures to the nose of the troops of your former associated in your study of lawyers and this that you have already developed in the coffre - strong of the office .
well course , that goes to the time d?testable where Derek was associated with a sure John Crosbie , who has already been a Liberal famous or malfam? of the other place .
I me hasten of add that Derek is today today many more mechanics , to this that he said , of the least .
Derek , sir friend , the number of the persons who have said here today today that they lines you miss in said long on the kind of human that you are .
I know that you me missed angry .
you advice safest , your assistance reliable and your wonderful and drafted sense of the humour hand me miss .
this who me miss particularly , I believe , this is the insurance that a real friend attends all the days these walls .
I you mud that we resterons in communication and that we demeurerons friends , even to distance .
the hon. Consiglio Di Nino :
honourable senators , I wish to speak of a other aspect of the contribution of the Senator Lewis to the Canada and to the Canadians that you not know can - be not for the most .
you have can - be noticed that , when we we rencontrons , we we giving the labour left rather that the right .
this not is not the sign of a society secr?te , but extend of a wonderful society who has many fact to the Canada .
the Senator Lewis is since long a member dedicated and z?l? of the movement scout , a passion that we share .
this movement has underlined his contribution of well of the ways , including in the competency recently deputy - chairman Honorary of the body national , a honour who me has also been LAVs .
blessed - you live still of many years of happiness .
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators ,
these words , writing by Rudyard Kipling , not have of any obviously not been writing in believing to Derek Lewis , but he party if act of someone a as Derek Lewis .
honourable senators , to the Senate , we produced the formula to honourable colleagues to in we ability the each to the other , but human here not is more hon. that Derek Lewis .
Derek Lewis was , and is always , a man very kind .
he is far satisfied that his achievements , and he in has known several , are occurred only to his work and to his efforts .
the Senator Lewis not has never believed necessary of use the other for reach to his purposes personal .
you not would never could accused Derek of act to the backs of someone a in the hope of current him - even , because Derek believer to the contrary that he enrichirait his own life in progressive the other .
even if Derek has succeeded as lawyer and Parliamentary , I the see particularly as a man generous , with a sense of the humour sophisticated , who has always been there for me support , to his manner discrete , but clear .
when I have chaired the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , with the Senator Nolin to my sides as deputy - chairman , the Senator Lewis was the other member of the Committee steering .
when I have been Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate , I knew that he was always there , prepared to help quiet but r?solument .
Derek and Grace have graciously received all the members of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional to Hogans Pond , Newfoundland - Newfoundland , when we we are prominent in this province for there study the question of the system school .
as Derek the knew very well , I had few reserves to the about of this amendment .
I must splendours that I afraid well more of contrarier Derek that of contrarier the government .
Derek will me miss to this place .
the too little vandalism visits of Grace to Ottawa hand also me miss .
I their wish of many years of a retirement pleased , together , in their province ador?e , including to Hogans Pond .
I hope that we resterons in touch because that the good friends are few and that they are the best friends of all those who the familiar .
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , to the opportunity of his retirement , we resource today today tribute to our friend Derek Lewis , the man modest and quiet of Newfoundland - Newfoundland who has fact a long and famous career to the Senate .
not is - this not a opportunity all route for take the time of we remind the balance delicate that the Senate supports in our life public therefore that the principles discrets , almost invisible , who education our work here important and dignified of faith ?
when I am came to Ottawa for the first time in 1966 , for work as Leader of cabinet of a Minister , you me has explained that he was essential that I me seek on the work of the Senate .
I knew very little of things on the way whose the Senate operated .
by a day ensoleill?e of July , I have asked a Boteler - you , by the through of Torrance Wiley , with a old friend who was then Deputy executive of the hon. John Connolly , the powerful Leader of the government to the Senate .
you me has immediately guest to the meet .
I am went in his wonderful office of corner lambriss? and well enlightened located in opposite of the Senate , of the other side of the chorus , office that nat now the present Leader of the government to the Senate .
almost of two decades more later , when I have had the fortunate of be appointed Senate , a old friend , the Senator acquisitiveness , the father of John acquisitiveness , to the other place , if is immediately developed in report with me .
the Senator acquisitiveness me has left the book Red of the Rules of the Senate and he me has said follows : to Respectez the Rules and the Senate you keeping . to
little after , the Scotians - Brunswickois to the Summer - speak , the Senator McElman , me has said that the work of the committees , this was the soul of the Senate .
he me has reminded that , even if the most of between we had a allegiance others a party , we could remodeler a bad policy government quiet , without amidst or amidst , by the through of the deliberations of the committees pleas .
he me has exhort? to work strong to the within of the committees .
then I have met the Senator Ian Sinclair who , to the then , just all fair of be appointed to the Senate .
before , he agency , with gracefully , the duties of steering General of the Canadian Pacific , a of the more major companies of the Canada , and he was a legendary peault in the sector of the Affairs .
the Senator Sinclair has said that his experience in the Affairs him had learned that his better work - and , therefore , the better work fact to the Senate - is extend who is realized by the senators them - same .
he has said that a good work to the Senate and in the committees apporterait his own reward under form of satisfaction personal .
finally , the Senator MacEachen of the Nova - Nova - a former Leader of the government to the Senate - me has reminded to numerous occasions , and has reminded to all the senators of this side - side , that order of maintain our own credibility and similar of the Senate , we find keep our disappear with the other place to the across of the corridor therefore that the other place of the other side of the street .
the echoes of his advice if are fact hear to the Senate not more later that yesterday , when the Senator Murray has raised the question of the study pre .
the Senator MacEachen if is firmly opposed to the study pre of the initiatives seems , because she had for effect undesirable of reduce the credibility of the Senate in as that House of reflection , in as that House independent of the other place , of the other place of the other side of the street , in as that House independent to our own eyes and to those of the public to the service wherein we are .
by therefore , to my sense , honourable senators , he must meet to the Senate a delicate balance between the principles .
the flame of the power of the other place is always attirante , but if we we in scenes too , our work and the Senate him - even continuously of be quickly reduced in cendres .
this are the first principles that I have glan?s to the about of the Senate .
the principles and the practice must go of fine .
all that , honourable senators , in preface of preamble to the tribute that I want pay to my good friend Derek Lewis , who we leaving for a retirement well deserved .
to my eyes , Derek has incarn? all these principles .
he comply our institution .
he has prior a knowledge encyclopaedic of the rules of the Senate and respected his lightweight .
in the business of the committees , he was the artisan by excellence .
Derek was test , m?ticuleux , department , witty and thought .
he is always remained to distance respectueuse of the power .
in a word , Derek was the Senator by excellence and the lawyer by excellence .
in this sense , he is a representative of a resources of more in more rare to the Senate .
for all these reasons and for his company who we miss , his departure decide a great vacuum to the Senate .
Derek , you are to the across of your travail .
your work is accomplished .
you and Grace m?ritez widely of live a pleased retirement in good health .
as you said in the tradition Jewish : to Puissiez - you live in good health until to 120 years . to
god you b?nisse .
the hon. Landon Pearson :
honourable senators , when I me am attached to the Senate for the first time , the face of Derek Lewis has been the a of the all first to if initiative of the myriad of the faces unknown faced I have should do opposite all the days in this chamber .
he was amical , but vacancy .
I me fiais on his mood for know this who importait or not in this chamber .
I efficiently many of importance to the five years that I have alone with Derek in this chamber and to the knowledge that he me has passed in his style inimitable .
I ch?ris also the fact that he me has said regularly that he me comply in as that colleague and in as that wife .
Derek Lewis will many we miss and I me join to all the honourable senators here today today for him add , therefore that to Grace , good fortunate .
that their life after the Senate be many more rich and more divertissante that they not carry the imagine now .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I am happy of pay tribute with my colleagues to the Senator Derek Lewis .
I have met the Senator Lewis for the first time here not not in as that Senator , but in as that son of Senator .
the Senator Lewis was a friend poised of my father , who sitting to the Senate to the then .
you me the has presented as a human very special .
a of the great plaisirs of my career has been of power rely me also on the friendship of the Senator Lewis .
you we has already said that the Senator Lewis was a man remarkable , a Senator , a lawyer , a advisor of Majesty Majesty paid in right and , can - be more important still , a volunteer in his community .
I the congratulate for that and I the in thank .
the Senator Lewis has represented this that he there has of better to the Senate by his dignity serene , his great jurisdiction and his work relentlessly .
he knows this who is necessary for do operate our institution .
he not there has not that the Senator Lewis who takes his retirement today today however .
he must also thinking to the contribution of Grace .
I the thank of have stalker the many attendance of Derek .
we remercions also the tireless of long date of the Senator Lewis , Sallie .
Senator Lewis , profitez of your retirement .
you have worked durum .
you missed to the Senate .
I you wish a retirement long and pleased .
we hope you see often with Grace .
of way serene , firm and effective , you have served your province and your country with distinction .
you missed many we miss .
the hon. Edward Lawson :
honourable senators , well of the things have been telling to the about of the career exceptional and of the accomplishments of the Senator Lewis , but for the people of the Western , he is always surprising of meet someone a reformer of a canto spirit and of a wonderful sense of the humour as the Senator Lewis .
we are all two here since strong long , but to our arrived , he there had a old Senator who we had devanc?s since nice lurette .
this old Senator said often that to the time of die , he had the intention of all just with him , and he was seriously .
he just of this contr?e .
he has left to each a envelope containing per 100,000 $ in cash and their has said that , when he mourrait , he wanted that each of them tabled the envelope in the astonishes containing his restes .
the old Senator is death .
the three men have faithfully followed the consigne and have tabled their envelope in the cercueil .
on the path of the return , the doctor has said that he had a collective to do .
the needs of the Hospital were if criants , particularly since that the government had sabr? in the Estimates , that he had puis? 25 100,000 $ in the envelope .
the pasteur r?pondit that him also had a collective to do .
the needs of his church were if criants that he had touch 40 100,000 $ .
the Senator Lewis their said that they should have shame of have miss of the sort to their promise solemn and he the assura that he had took the care of table in the cercueil his envelope containing a cheque staff to the amount of per 100,000 $ .
what that ensure the problems that you Unless in this chamber , when well even you porteriez the negative of the world on your shoulders , when you rencontrez the Senator Lewis , force you is of smile .
he r?pand the joy around of him with his test , his canto spirit and his wonderful sense of the humour .
Senator Lewis , you we missed !
the hon. L?once Mercier :
honourable senators , he me fact happy of pay tribute today today to the Senator Derek Lewis , who if is distinguished by his sense of the justice and his spirit of diplomacy .
I have greatly appreciate the qualities of this Newfoundland - Newfoundlander .
the Senator Lewis has reconciling his duties with honesty and jurisdiction .
his intellect and his sense of the humour have contributed to contribute a balance between his colleagues senators .
hence a accuracy who is rare !
the Senator Lewis expression the dicton who said : to Soyez honest others you - even to , this is a man whose the speak is of gold , a man reliable referred you can do confidence .
I hope that all the Newfoundland - alter are pareils because the Senator Lewis has established a standard who will difficult to apply .
Senator Lewis , your province and your country are proud of your services .
I you directed all my wishes .
the hon. P . Derek Lewis :
honourable senators , I thank the senators for their tributes .
even if this was in great part exaggeration , I not contesterai nothing , particularly not the kind comments held to my regard .
I immediately this care to of other .
I have had the privilege of be member of this House during a little more of 21 years .
I have many appreciate of have had the possible of me associate to of the colleagues also various , informed and obviously , and I in am honoured .
during the years that I have fellow here , I me am fact several friends families whose I ch?rirai always the friendship .
I have took happy to work with the senators of the two sides of the House .
my only regret , this is that the circumstances me shifted forced this last year of happen someone little my activities and of not have could therefore better do knowledge with the senators appointed recently to the Senate .
he was a then where I not me souciais or of the world of the policy or of his players .
however , when I me there am interested of almost in me involving personally , I have soon including all those who rely on this Alexander and learned to sympathiser with them .
to the departure , this is the curiosity who me has forced to take share to the life policy .
as some of between you the know , a time that you if involved in a bill , you if find committed in a twofold who go of more in more soon , and you finit by become accroch? .
some activities parliamentarians were if impr?visibles that I me unsure sometimes lost .
he appropriate , to my notice , of put in place a program of direction to the intention of the senators newly appointed , not only for explain the procedure , but also for the inform of the different services and facilities developed to their clause .
in well of the case , I not have discovered these things that after have asked the question to of the colleagues , as the has fact the Senator Cook .
this is really pity , since this information is disposable , to the condition of know where the seek .
to the over of the years , many of new senators have expressed the same concerns .
I believe know that , since few years , of the measures have been taken for improve the things .
he is recognize important that the new senators if familiarisent soon that possible with the Rules of the Senate .
I have participated during of many years to the business of different committees and I have many appreciate the experience , well that this was sometimes difficult .
I have been Right impressed by the quality and the exhaustivit? of the reviews faced we we livrions .
as of other before me the have fact complying , the work in Committee is the a of the activities the more important of the Senate .
I think including to two committees in particular .
a of the first committees faced I have participated has been the Committee Joint of the review of the regulatory .
he if called differently to the then .
work with the staff and the representatives of the Committee was a happy .
they perform if well the work ennuyeux who introducing to study and to excellent of the regulations and of the procedure .
to the within of this Committee , I have evolved under various chairmen whose , of the side of the Senate , the former senators Lafond , Forsey , acquisitiveness and Nurgitz , therefore that the Senator Grimard .
our chairman in fiscal is the Senator Hervieux - Hervieux .
I have also co during a sure time this Committee .
I have also been during very long member of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , who has always been a of the committees the more busy of the Senate .
I have had the happy of c?toyer of the chairmen as the former senators Stanbury , Flynn and Nurgitz , therefore that the senators Beaudoin , Carstairs and Milne .
the work of this Committee was very interesting and important .
the leadership reconciling by the persons having served the Speaker has enormous contributed to the accomplishments of the Committee .
I issues now briefly the question of the reform of the Senate who , since the then even of his creation , fact the subject of many of discussions and of controversy .
I note that little after my appointment here , the question of a reform designed to do of the Senate a body elected has of new surgi .
in 1980 , a Committee Joint of the two Houses of the Parliament has been established order of study of the ways whose the Senate could be reformed in view of strengthen his role of representative of the people of all the regions .
I have been appointed to this Committee , who was co by the hon. Senator Molgat and the hon. Paul Cosgrove .
after have held of many meetings in various regions of the country and have heard many of evidence , of conscious and of discussions , the Committee is came to the conclusion and has fact report to the two Houses that the Senate should be elected by the people and he has articulate of the suggestions on the way of if there take .
the report has been tabled in 1984 .
as the know the honourable senators , nothing not has changed since this time .
I recommends to the senators of read the report .
you find that the Committee not if is focused that on the question of know if the Senate should be set of people appointed or elected .
the Committee not had not to determine if the Canada should have a regime bicameral of government or to if deal on the powers and devoirs who incomberaient to a second House .
to the over of the years , these questions have in great part been left for account .
to my notice , this are of the questions cruciales experienced he should of first answer before of stop the method of selection of the people who carelessly part of a such second House or of draw the number of senators according the region or the province .
to this regard , I getting pointed that the Senator Joyal is in considering of ably a Committee officieux of eminent academic for study these questions .
in reason of the efforts that he makes , the Senator Joyal is described in the press as the Sir Galaad of the Senate .
we have forward of know the results of this study and the recommendations who will can - be followed .
in ending , I you thank all for the assistance that you me have embraced in my business to the Senate to the over of the years .
I thank all the employees and the officials for their kindness and their cooperation .
I wish to thank all particularly my Secretary , Sallie DeLaplante , who is presented to the gallery , for his loyalty , his support and his effectiveness during if long .
well course , I thank my dear wife Grace , who me has constantly seconded to the during of this period .
let - me of mention a last something .
this not is not a question of privilege .
he seems that he there gave a farceur to the Senate .
he not there has not if long , probably by regard for my age and my comfort , you has developed a coverage under my office .
I know who has fact that .
the Senator Di Nino :
this is probably Grace !
the Senator Lewis :
this is possible , but I will the let to the next occupying of this fortune .
I you thank for your patience and you offer my best wishes for the future .
of the Senators :
hear !
' ' '
the Late of Allan Austin Lamport , O . C .
tributes
the hon. Francis William Mahovlich :
honourable senators , the former mayor of Toronto , Allan Austin Lamport , is honour .
Allan Austin Lamport , marks of the Order of the Canada , member of the Assembly legislative of the Ontario , chairman of the Commission of transport of Toronto and member of the Bomber Royal of the Canada , was known under the behalf of to Lampy to by his friends .
I have fact the knowledge of Lampy to my arrived to Toronto , to the beginning of the years 50 .
in 1953 - 1954 , the m?tro has been inaugurated and Lampy was mayor .
this was a concludes for all those who altering work to the Maple Leaf Argonauts .
the practices of hockey after the school not surely not many of time for the meals of the night or for the studies .
the m?tro allowed of save of the time .
the mayor was famous for his impropri?t?s or his looks to the Yogi Berra .
( before that the States - United shifted Yogi Berra , the Canada had Allan Lamport . )
in following few - concerns :
his to lampyismes to have been for Lampy a weapon achievement to the during of his career policy .
the man who to niait any allegation and who d?fiait all alligator to has disbursed few losses : the Red Ensign , the Bomber Royal Canadian , a court in diffamation of a chauffeur of taxi and the riding St. David' St. , that he has lost to the profit of William Dennison when he has been transf?r? on the Coast is , in 1945 .
this is in 1945 , I believe , that is born her the Senator Milne , who is exactly the daughter of William Dennison .
spent well , in 1994 , be 40 years after that he report inaugurated the m?tro and that I fus came to Toronto , we have all two received the Order of the Canada .
a something that I brief pr?dire to the about of Lampy , this is where he if assoirait in the Hot Stove Lounge of the Maple Leaf Argonauts .
I entrais , I suspendais my manteau and my chapeau , I groups a half - turn to right and Lampy was there , in good politician that he was , serrant the labour of all the invited came take the Tongues .
hence few - concerns of the quotations the more stick of be quotations of the man who has authorized to Toronto the sports the Sunday .
now , for the conclusion final , Lampy , you if recall always of you as of the man to the side dealing .
that God you b?nisse !
the hon. Peter A . Stollery :
honourable senators , I have seen the Senator Mahovlich Sunday night to the salon fun?raire where daily Allan Lamport .
I like me do the echo of his remarks for of the reasons personal .
my father , Alan Stollery , was a great necessitates of Allan Lamport .
I me recall , during my Youth , of events such that the Authorized of the sports the Sunday , the Prime bill of housing social to the Canada and all the other accomplissements of Allan Lamport , who has without no doubt been the more great mayor of Toronto of this century .
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
fisheries
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Senate Standing of the fisheries , regarding the Estimates incurred by the Committee during the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
security and services of Intelligence
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Special
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , to the behalf of the Senator Kelly and pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Special of the Senate on the security and the services of Intelligence , regarding the Estimates incurred by the Committee during the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report found to the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
Economy Economy , Budgets and Administration
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration , regarding the Estimates incurred by the Committee to the during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report found to the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
security of the transport
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Special
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Special of the security of the transport , regarding the Estimates incurred by the Committee during the first session of the Session Parliament .
the adjournment
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until to Tuesday next , the 30 November 99 , to 14 p.m. .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Affairs legal and Constitutional
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I give notice that Tuesday next , the 30 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional be authorized to sit the 1 December 99 , to 15 p.m. 30 , even if the Senate seat to this time - there , and that the application of the subsection 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
privileges , Rules and procedure
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Serge Joyal :
honourable senators , with the leave of the s?nat and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) has ) of the Rules , I move :
that the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure be authorized to sit to 16 p.m. 30 , the duration , even if the Senate seat , of now to the end of December 99 , order that the Committee can study the question of privilege raised by the hon. Senator Bacon therefore that the questions of privilege of the honourable senators Andreychuk and Kinsella , and that the application duparagraphe 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , have - I heard the Senator Joyal say 15 p.m. 30 or 16 p.m. 30 in his motion ?
the Senator Joyal :
I have said 16 p.m. 30 .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
I thought that the Speaker pro tempore had said 15 p.m. 30 .
still a time , honourable senators , we are before of requests of committees who want sit in even time that the Senate .
we should can - be expect that the committees shifted set their p.m. of sitting , before of decide of the ourselves .
the situation is completely invers?e .
four committees in two days have asked to sit in even time that the Senate .
I suggests the senators there reflect .
the committees seem always perturber the business of the Senate .
I putting that the business of the committees are important , but we have of the responsibilities important to duties here also .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Senator Staunton - Lynch , Leader of the Opposition , has raised a argument valid .
this is a point on which we must we dealt all together , for trying of in arrive to a decision , as the has underlined the Senator Staunton - Lynch , on the times where the committees could hold their sittings without perturber unduly the business of the Senate .
when I have took place to the front of the Senate , I not me unsure not also only that I me sense now , then that the seats if vident of more in more to legislation that the after - afternoon advance .
the hon. Peter A . Stollery :
he would can - be good that we revoyions this question in even time that similar of the committees who sit in even time that the Senate .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Defence national
the Alternative of the canoeing of helicopters Sea King
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate we has given the insurance , which we accept , that the Alternative of the Sea King in view of the activities a?ronavales is a great priority of the Minister of the Defence national .
he there has two days , the Secretary Parliamentary of the Minister has said , in response to a question raised to the House of the Commons , that the decision became to the Minister and that she if amorphous on his office .
today today , the under - Leader of state - Staff of the Defence has said that the forces Armed have signed the presentation of the need to the end of June or to the beginning of July .
words said , the Minister expected since already a good time .
why expected - he ?
if is - you away of the intention stated in the book white of the Defence of 1994 , according which he if 13 then of a priority and that you there respond of here the end of this decade ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
as the has points the Senator , he seems that of the business pr?liminaires shifted been wishes to the about of this decision .
when I combines that with the insurance that I have received of the Minister , to know that this decision represents his great priority , I have good hope that a decision will taken in a future very grown .
the Alternative of the canoeing of helicopters Sea King - Position possible of ?vacuer the troops of the sectors chauds
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , these warning encouraged nonetheless five years more later .
the patient not if door not very well .
the Minister is to the aware of the operation Cobra , who has had held he there has few years , where we find rely on the Sea King , to the case where we side forced of ?vacuer of the troops of the Bosnia .
someone 4 500 military of the Forces Canadian are currently in mission in of the areas dangerous , in the world around .
what kind of equipment utiliserions - we for ?vacuer these people and the takes in held course , if we find do opposite to a such need today today ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Senator Forrestall knows that the officers senior are without no doubt always in legislation of express the need of equipment Supplementary , need who if fact always feel .
we have of the equipment who is in operation since very long and the Minister of the Defence national if is given as priority of do replace this equipment the more quickly possible .
in this who respect the helicopters Sea King , the hon. Senator has said and continues of affirming that the program of Alternative not advance not enough quickly .
I not can speak of this who if is product in the past , but I hope that we basis in legislation of replace this equipment in a deadline reasonable .
honourable senators , I not am not a strategist military , but I know that he there has some types of aircraft who cases strong well to move of the staff and of the equipment toward of the regions of the world where we are called to speak .
he must hope that this ability whose you if is served recently remains good .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , I me concern of the well - be of the members of the Forces Canadian .
they pilots in of the aircraft who , when they are utilisables , not can be used that during a brief period .
the equipment is old and little reliable .
still yesterday or before - yesterday , we have should ?vacuer a school to the Cape - Cape because that a flying Hercules has ?prouv? of the problems of drives and has should if ask , by legislation of pr?caution to the better , but he if 13 probably of a atterrissage of emergency .
we not know not that the Labrador are finger to the soil .
we versons10 million of $ , for sit to the table and for know this who will if move .
this is presumably for that we can replace the F - 18 .
if you can spending 140 million of $ to left et147 million of $ to right , why not not seek to obtain of participate to the conception of the new Cormorant or Sikorsky for if ensure that they are pool of equipment answering to the requirements operational formula in the statement of the needs that we have established since that we have began to consider the Purchase of the EH - EH ?
why not can - we not buy this new equipment and the use ?
honourable senators , the people start to believe that the actions of the government are amoraux , they finiront soon by believe that they are immoraux .
jumping before that of other persons not milking .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I sharing the concerns of the hon. Senator , as all the other senators of elsewhere , in this who respect the security of our military and their effectiveness deploy .
the equipment whose we talking is a equipment complex , and of the equipment complex That can let in missed .
in effect , even the equipment complex nine falls sometimes in missed and has need of be spoken .
I think that he is fair of say that the program of Alternative is already in good seaway of too .
the program of Alternative of the under - submarines considerable of a funding to live of more of three quarters of billion of $ .
a helicopter Use to replace the helicopter of research and of search Labrador costs almost of 800 million of $ .
these programs are in during .
the Alternative of the canoeing of helicopters Sea King - Request of copy of the statement of the needs
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
the Minister if commitment he to table here , to the House , the statement of the needs to the regard of the program who is already realized ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I will me information deposited of the Minister and I suivrai the practice usual for table the document .
the industry
the ligue national of hockey - Position possible of a assistance government for the teams
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
this week , the board City of Kanata has announced that he reduce of 75 per the taxes fonci?res of the Centre Corel .
the amount therefore ?conomis?e would then postponed to the team of the thyself of Ottawa .
the government has he the intention of help the team of the thyself to even the Treasury federal ?
a such assistance will she split also between all the teams of hockey Canadian ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , Mr. Manley , the Minister responsible of the issues of this kind , has indicated that he Roles various options further to a some assistance federal .
course , this more recent legislation was welcome in the process .
you can say that she is encouraging in the context overall .
however , the Minister Manley has indicated that , even if he if is of a not in the good leadership , he met still several elements before that the government federal not particulars a decision .
to this day , the Minister not has took no decision to my knowledge .
the Senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , what are the main objections to the idea of help financially the teams of hockey professional ?
the Senator Boudreau :
I not like not paraphrasing the objections raised by the different stakeholders during the debates , honourable senators .
they if are enough well views .
however , I can assume that you if objects to this idea to because of the salaries high of the protocol , without speak of the salaries of the owners of the teams .
I not formula not these arguments .
I ?mets only of the assumptions .
by the Edgar Mr. Manley , the government has clear said that he ?tudierait the question , but that all that sold a encha?nement of events .
the more recent , this is - to - say the decision of the board City of Kanata , is positive .
however , all this that I can say to the honourable senators , this is that the Minister not is not still prepared to announce a decision .
the Senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , I am enough bureau .
I not love not the grants what that they ensure .
however , I have thought that the government federal limited all the efforts imaginables for give of the money to the thyself of Ottawa since give of the money to of the people who in earn already many not is not of the all unusual for the Liberal federal .
to payments of example , the year last , the Corporation CBC - Canada has received 844 million of $ .
the year modified , she had received 903 million .
if I not me read , the chairman and the deputy - chairman of this society touch between 200 100,000 and 300 100,000 $ by year .
the houses of edition have received 31 643 742 $ the year last .
the chairman and the steering of the board of Administration of the Rogers Cable touch more of 1 million of $ by year , but this not are not of the stars who if produced in brutes all the samedis night before two million of sideshow .
the book Blue , the Estimates Main of the Estimates , contains many of other examples of the even acabit .
of the grants there are ensuing for the filmmakers and the networks of television .
you give of the money for enable of the films that human not will never see ; the Qu and the producers touch between 50 100,000 $ and 200 100,000 $ by Film , without speak of their remuneration Annual .
Mr. . Manley believes - he a only moment that he not help not the teams and the protocol of hockey of the small communities of the Prairies and of the front - country of the Ontario ?
the government should have shame .
on the plan cultural , the hockey is many more important for the Canada that all these case whose I have spoke .
you invitations duties these cheques soon tomorrow .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I me delighted of see that the Senator has of the ideas also opinionated on the question .
I not certainly not of in do share to who of right .
I have believed a moment that the Senator was on the point of Murphy the principles NDP - discard who , in Equity of development economic , prefers give of the money to those who the lose rather that to those who know in gain .
the Senator Tkachuk :
this is the philosophical Liberal !
the Senator Boudreau :
Questions delayed to of the questions Oral
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have the response to of the questions raised to the Senate the 16 November 99 by the honourable senators Gustafson , Sparrow and Spivak .
the agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Position possible of a program of credit agricultural - Conformity program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural - Conformity effectiveness of the program - Changes Payments to the claimants
( response to the questions raised by the Leonard J . Gustafson , the hon. Herbert O . Sparrow and the hon. Mira Spivak the 16 November 99 . )
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Position possible of a program of credit agricultural
the Corporation of the credit agricultural ( SCA ) includes the serious of the situation in which if find good number of farmers of the Prairies .
she has therefore developed on foot a mechanism order of communicate of way achieving with his clients of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba who anticipent of the difficulties order of the help to find of the solutions .
until here , the clients are devote to do their Payments despite the dropping of the during of the substantially .
to the end of October , realistic per of the accountability were to day to the wide national compared to patterns per in Saskatchewan .
he not there has not had of increase substantially of the levels of arr?rages , well that they ensure to the increase .
in Saskatchewan , to the end of October , 1 267 clients were in arr?rages compared to 953 to the even date the year last , while that to the Manitoba , these figures were clauses of 243 and 231 .
he must mention that he there has usually a jet before that the effects of a crisis on the market not if actually feel on the levels of arr?rages .
the SCA continue therefore of follow the situation of almost to the during of the next year .
to this stage - side , the better way of help the clients who indiscriminately of the difficulties is of work closely with them order of find of the solutions who their enable of spanning this crisis .
in as that society of state federal , the SCA is prepared to play the role of tool of policy public that you him ask .
as I the have mentioned , the majority of the clients of the SCA have could do their Payments to their completed .
the program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural ( ACRA )
all recently , the government federal has added a contribution de170 million of $ , this who door the assistance offered by the government of the Canada to more of a billion of $ .
the government of the Canada has brought of the changes to the time to the ACRA and to the CSRN order that a more great number of producers ensure eligible to a assistance financial .
following some of the major changes :
since September , the producers can ask a allowance interim to the payments of the ACRA who their allows of body a assistance immediate if embodies to 60 per of the total of the allowances experienced they have right for 99 .
the 4 November , 99 , the Minister of the Agriculture and of the Agroalimentaire has announced that the government federal couvrira until to 70 per of the marges negative of the producers for 1998 and 99 .
for the year civil 99 , the producers able choose , a only time , the period of reference on which will based the calculating of their allowances .
since September , the businesses agricultural whose the fiscal financial is concluded to the purposes of the tax on the income can present immediately a r?clamation to the payments of the ACRA for 99 .
the changes Regional to the CSRN treaty also the producers to obtain of the funds :
the below of intervention of the income minimum of the CSRN is past of 10 100,000 $ to 20 100,000 $ for a particular and of 20 100,000 $ to 35 100,000 $ for a family of farmers .
the participants to the CSRN can now commissioned a withdrawal and a Tabled to the during of the even year .
the period of reimbursement for the avances on withdrawal has been constitutes to a year ( she was of 90 days ) for the producers who have withdrawn a amount Superior to similar to which they had right in under of the floors of intervention .
the fees of too - paid for the avances on withdrawal have been reduced .
the producers who if are retir?s of the program CSRN able if there reinstate after two years rather that three as this is the case currently .
in reason of these changes , the Administration of the ACRA has paid almost of 380 million of $ to someone 19 100,000 producers .
of more , a little more of 27 500 producers have withdrawn 304 million of $ of their accountability CSRN .
these changes indicate well the commitment of the government of the Canada to do evidence of creativity and of flexibility in concevant of the programs who help the producers who in have the more need , and his showing of continue of contribute of the improvements order of ensure to this that the more great number of producers Canadian possible carry benefit of the assistance disposable .
the business of the Senate
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the rectification that I getting contribute to the Hansard , that means say that the bill of bill not will not in two places in even time .
that means also say that the reports of these two committees will introduced to the Senate .
the honourable senators must be deliver and ensure to this that , if a Committee fact report before the other , if he is proposed of study a report before that the study of the two reports be placed to the Order of the day , that be said completed .
the Senator Kinsella :
of agreed .
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , the Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate can - he me say if we have there a precedent ?
is - this that that if is never fact before ?
the Senator Hays :
I thank the Senator Corbin of his question .
I fear that we hurt indeed on the point of create a new precedent .
I think well that our experts of the procedure me number pointed the existence of a such precedent .
but they not in have nothing fact .
I in conclude that this practice is new .
the Senator Corbin :
honourable senators , I believe know that a Committee will responsible of some aspects of this bill of bill .
this Committee is authorized to present a report , but this report not will not examined before that the bill of bill not be referred to the other Committee , who will to his turn his report , and the two reports will debated in even time .
pays - you me indication how the bill of bill will Message of a Committee to the other , or who if in chargera , if this not is not by our through ?
the Senator Kinsella :
the Clerk if in chargera .
the Senator Hays :
the Senator points that the bill of bill not can if find that to a only place to the time .
he not is already more to the Senate .
we the have referred to the Committee of the Banking with instructed of we in do report .
I have explained , and we in have spoke yesterday , that the bill of bill will then referred to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
he not will therefore not examined to more of a place to the time .
he has already been submitted to the Committee of the Banking .
when this Committee in will concluded , the Committee of the Affairs foreign if in assisting .
the chairman of this Committee souhaitera can - be the table in even time that the report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
I think that this way of proceed changed .
if no attempt not is made for debate the Prime report before that the other not we be referred , I not see not how this way of proceed could be judged completed .
I hope that this observation assistance the Senator .
the Senator Corbin :
honourable senators , he is here question of a precedent who could have a impact on the operating future of the Senate .
a time that a precedent is established , you underlies to the contractual for repeat the procedure .
not would - he not more simple for the Prime Committee responsible of study the bill of bill of in do report to the Senate , who inscrirait then a second Order Authorize referred of the bill of bill to the other Committee ?
he me seems that this would the way solutions of proceed in the circumstances .
therefore , the bill of bill not would not all simply developed in Awaiting someone share .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I attention to the hon. Senator that the precedent there already .
we not the quite not today today , since we the have fact yesterday .
today today , we force only this who has been fact .
if someone a means the ask , this is well , but , according my agreement with the Leader Deputy of the Opposition , I not getting that ask , order of ensure the Order , of clarify the account realized of the business for that he reflects this who fine in the bleus who you have been left to all , to the held of the from who craft in the Debates of the Senate of the 24 November , who have been distributed as of usual .
the Senator Corbin :
honourable senators , I respecterai the decision of the Senate , but I wish simply to do a implementation in Access in saying that he not should not approach to a such way of proceed by whim .
we should complying carefully the procedure .
he me seems that , according the precedent to complying in this case , the Prime Committee should study the bill of bill , in do report , then the Senate Burmese a other motion Authorize referred of the bill of bill to the second Committee , who in limited report , then the two reports carelessly in even time the subject of a debate .
I not love not many the way whose we have decided of proceed .
the Senator Hays :
I accept the criticism , honourable senators , if this is well this whose he if is .
I then ensure to the senators that I happy to the future more prudent for this who is of find of new means of do reach of the bills of bill to the Committee .
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , the Leader Deputy of the government has tried of clarify the situation this after - afternoon , but , in obviate , the Senator Corbin has poses that we have now a problem , because this Prime Committee is held by the Rules of present his report soon that he will prepared .
he not can not expect that the other Committee gave presented his report .
I recommends that the Committee presented his report soon that extend - side will prepared , but that we comprehensive for examine this report that the other Committee gave examined the bill of bill .
we respecterions therefore the Rules .
I add , however , that this is there a very dangerous precedent .
the Senator Hays :
I the repeat , honourable senators , I accept this criticism .
the Senator Carstairs :
this not is not a criticism .
Order OF orders
bill of bill of implementation in force of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
- honourable senators , I pretend all of first that I am delighted of take the speak to comments of the bill of bill C - 4 , who governs the participation of the Canada to the too of the great bill scientific and technologique that is the creation of the Station spatiale international .
I attention in way that this bill of bill not has engagement no controversy to the other place .
let - me of quote all of first the words exaltantes that has telling the father of the program spatial Canadian , John H . Chapman :
to the during of the second century of the Confederation , this are the links tiss?s in the space who maintiendront in place the fabric of the society Canadian all as the path of railway and the t?l?graphe have soud? the provinces Diaspora to the during of the century last .
Mr. . Chapman has then added :
the progress technological fully of the exploration spatiale if r?percutent in the activities normal of our world .
honourable senators , the bill of bill C - 4 treating of the exploration spatiale in the interest of all the Canadians and of the humanity .
the bill of bill C - 4 allows to the Canada of become a partner to share full in the more great business , the construction and the exploitation of the Station spatiale international .
he officialise our participation in as that nation .
our investment in of the bills of science and of Technology spatiales such that the Station spatiale international , doing that the scientific , engineers and entrepreneurs Canadian roles a Position important on the market international .
that allows to our country of continue to contributing to the maltreatment scientific and to our understanding of the Alexander all around .
the Station spatiale international is a symbol of cooperation international and of the effort concert? of the major Nations industrial of the world among expelling found the Canada in as that partner key .
in his version clear , the CFTO couvrira a neatly equal to a ground of football and logera a team permanent international of seven members whose of the astronautes Canadian sp?cialis?s in the areas of the biotechnologie , of the genius , of the observation of the Newfoundland and of the telecommunications .
honourable senators , the legislation legislative whose we are before door on the enforcement of the obligations of the Canada to the payments of the Agreement on the cooperation Current to the Station spatiale international civil and on the application of the provisions of the Code criminal Canadian to the Canadians to board of the CFTO .
the parties to the agreed if engage to establish a framework of cooperation international between they in view of the conception detailed , of the development , of the exploitation and of the use , to of the purposes harshness , of a CFTO international civil .
the bill of bill to the study highlights the legislation Canadian in harmony with the obligations international n?goci?es in the framework of the agreed and , this doing , upholds the firm resolution of the Canada of participate to this bill you not can more historic .
the history of the participation of the Canada to the bill of Station spatiale international date of the year where the Prime astronaut Canadian , Hamelin Garneau , has travelled in the space .
in 1984 , the chairman Reagan had guest of the friends and of the allies to if join to the States - United in view of the construction , of the exploitation and of the use of a CFTO spatiale in orbite around of the Newfoundland , and this , to of the purposes harshness .
in March 1985 , the Canada accepta the invitation and avisa the NASA that the contribution of the Canada would represents on the concept of a system of maintenance Bethune .
this system not is nothing of least that the generation next of the gave spatial Canadian , who help to borrow the CFTO spatiale and to the maintain a time that she will in orbite .
in 1988 , the Canada , the States - United , the Europe and the Japan ?tablirent officially a partnership in banning a agreed regarding the CFTO spatiale .
this document states the great principles and the touchstone legal of the cooperation Current to the program of a CFTO spatiale .
after the strengthens of the CFTO spatiale in 1993 , the partners have finally guest the Russia to if associate to this who going become a CFTO spatiale really international .
the 8 April 1997 , during of a conference of press with the chairman Clinton , the Prime Minister of the Canada has r?affirm? the participation of the Canada to the program international of CFTO spatiale and announced that the Canada powerful the parenting agile specially .
this t?l?robot , known under the behalf of labour robotics , is designed for operate with a new gave parenting and commit to the operations of patchwork and to the upkeep manifold .
after three years of negotiations , all the parties have signed the new agreed intergouvernemental on the CFTO spatialele 29 January 1998 , doing officially a associated of the Russia .
this agreed provides a period of two years for his Ratification , who must therefore if do the 29 January of the year 2000 .
the bill therein C - 4 allows to the Canada of ratify this agreed international and of approve officially our commitment to the regard of this partnership .
in the discussions international , he is always question of the many accomplishments of the Canada in the field spatial , including of the Canadarm .
this who is more important , the success of the Canadarm has spent to the Canada the credibility necessary for if aventurer still more far and illustrious of new progress in the robotics spatiale of forefront , follows with the confidence of the country who have a program spatial .
he assure to the sector scientific of the Canada a access draft to the conditions of microgravit? of the space and creates of new benefits technological for the country all around .
today today , the Canada recueille the benefits of his participation to the bill in words of contracts for the industry spatiale Canadian and in words of comforting , the comforting of participate to the a of the more major prouesses of the history in the field of the marvel .
the Canada if expected to a performance equal to three or four time the value of his Investment downpayment and to the creation of many jobs in the field of the Technology of forefront .
the participation of the Canada to the construction of the CFTO spatiale has d?marr? under of excellent auspices .
in December last , we have attended to the implementation in place of the gave spatial and of the system of vision artificielle Canadian to the purposes of the montage of the two first modules of the CFTO , the module American to Unity to and the module Russian to Zarya to .
in May last , this is with great pride that we have seen Ms Julie Hervieux become the first CIBC to borrow to board of the two first modules of the CFTO .
the year next , Mr. Hamelin Garneau simultaneously his third mission in quality of member of the crew of the STS - 97 .
this mission will essentially aside to the facility of the biodegradable solaires of the Station spatiale international and comportera two Pentagon in the space Mr. Garneau coordonnera .
Apr?sM. Hamelin Garneau , Mr. Chris Hadfield simultaneously his second mission .
with all our fellow , we assisterons to the first exit of a Canadian in the space in the human Mr. Hadfield , who will for mission of dramatically the new gave robotics of the Canada on the Station spatiale international .
managed this apparatus in place , the Canada and all the other country of the world g with joy and pride how working the gave spatial Canadian and the new gave robotics who corollary to the construction of the more great structure spatiale and of the more great laboratory of microgravit? never closed .
soon that this system of maintenance Bethune will Operational , through to the facility of the labour robotics to the storage of the gave spatial , the astronautes able explicitly in orbite of the tasks complex in full effectiveness and in any security to departure of the comfort relatif of the modules of the CFTO spatiale .
in of other words , if the Technology robotics Canadian not had not existed , this CFTO not would could be built or entretenue with the effectiveness and the strengths The .
in March , the government of the Canada has awarded to the Agency spatiale Canadian a funding stable and Standing to the payments of the program spatial of the Canada .
this decision testimony of the commitment firm of the government to the regard of the promotion of the Science and of the technologies of forefront on expelling if support the economy World based on the know and the Canadians for stay to the before - Access in the field .
our investment in the Technology spatiale if day in the right over of our commitments in Equity of protection of the environment , such that viewed in the Protocol of Montreal and the agreements of Kyoto .
the Canada is the 55 of RADARSAT , the achievement satellite who has licences to our country of take the first place to the world for this who is of the management of the Newfoundland to departure of the space .
today today , we produced RADARSAT for monitor the floods , as in the case of the flood of the Newcastle Red to the Manitoba , for support the operations of management of the disasters , as to Kobe , to the Japan , and for better do understand the effects of the War on the Communities local and their environment , as in the case of the Vietnam .
our investment in the field spatial we created of do current the d?couvertes scientific .
through to the experiences intimate by the scientific world of the space among capably the Canadians are recognized for their role decisive , we told more on the Alexander , on the effects of the sun on the Newfoundland and on the way of exploit the conditions of microgravit? unique , this who we allows of obtain of the information elevating on the system dying - Companion , the routine , the cerveau and the effects of the cleaners on the body human .
the experiences Canadian in the field of the Science spatiales if penchent , by example , on the problems of health whose the cancer and the diseases of the routine as the osteoporosis , a illness who affects more of a million of Canadians .
our Investment fact current the Innovation , who has of the benefits in our daily .
of our days , we not seem not aware that , each time that we allumons the t?l?viseur , ?coutons the forecasts of the time , resource visit to the doctor , allumons our computer portable , take our telephone of voiture or enfilons our shoes of won who absorbent the chocs , we produced of the products and services who have b?n?fici? of the research spatiale .
our investment exceptions also the industry spatiale , who employ of the thousands of Canadians and has of the income of more de1,4 billion of $ , whose 45 per stem of the exports , this who is the percentage the more high among the country who have a industry spatiale .
through to the strategy industrial of the Canada , who has fact of the robotics spatiale and of the Lightstations a treated strategic , our industry has product of the technologies innovative who doing their Gallery in the world around .
of other country industrialized of Prime plan doing appeal to the expertise of the Canada for do of their contribution to the CFTO spatiale a reality .
EMS Technologies , of Ottawa , has recently employed a market of due million of $ home Mitsubishi , to the Japan , for provide the component Electronic of the contribution Japan to the Station spatiale international .
of other commandes could bringing the value total of the market to 24 million of $ .
by - above all , our commitment to the regard of a sector spatial dynamic is a commitment others our young , our future scientific , engineers and astronautes .
in preface of conclusion , I pretend that the Station spatiale international help to do current the telecommunications , the Science and the Innovation , the observation of the Newfoundland and the exploration spatiale .
the Ratification of the bill therein C - 4 is a step important in this who is a commitment international sustainable and beneficial of the Canada .
the bill of bill , who governs the participation Canadian to this business remarkable , is a not that we franchissons with confidence , to the time where the Canada and the humanity if appr?tent to do a show of g?ant .
( on the motion of the Senator DeWare , to the behalf of the Senator Kelly , the debate is adjourned . )
the speech of the Throne
the Adresse in response - Motion rigour end to the debate the eighteenth day of sitting - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Hays , seconded by the hon. Senator Mercier :
that the deliberations to the Order of the day for the resuming of the debate on the motion seconded to the Adopted of a Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne , sir by His Excellency the Gouverneure general before the two Houses of the Parliament , if remission the eighteenth day of sitting where the Order will been debated ;
and on the motion of amendment of the hon. Senator Kinsella , seconded by the hon. Senator DeWare , that the motion not be not now agreed but that she be amended in deleting the word to eighteenth to and in the replacement by the word to fourteenth to .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I like you remind that I have proposed , as several leaders assistants of the government of the two parties before me , that the interventions in response to the speech of the Throne if remission the eighteenth day of sitting where the Order will been debated .
words said , the deliberations would completed in eight days of sitting .
the key objection of the Senator Kinsella is that this motion tortuous unduly the number of senators authorized to speak on this motion .
in fact , he is went until to say that that could be dangerous .
I me see therefore in the obligation of try of him explain the reasons of this motion .
honourable senators , we have had five days of deliberations , with in average , of the interventions of three senators by sitting , this who fact a total of 15 senators to have took the speak , nine of the Opposition and six whipped .
well that we not hurt not subject by the rule next , he is however interesting of learn that the subsection 50 ( 1 ) of the Rules of the House of the Commons states follows :
the deliberations on the Order of the day Authorize resuming of the debate on the motion of Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne and on all the amendments there proposed not must not overtake six days of sitting .
honourable senators , this is two days of least that this that I move in my motion .
well heard , the other place has of the rules similar regarding , by example , the debate budget .
how explain this rule of the other place , and why this motion would - she a tradition here ?
that if explain , to my sense , by the fact that the response to the speech of the Throne has always been for the senators the opportunity of address virtually not important what about , and not not only , as the has left hear the Senator Kinselladans his intervention , the plan of action proposed by legouvernement - well that this be desirable .
in of other words , a Senator can ask to take the speak for deal of not important what question , without that his colleagues not in shifted been solicitors to the pre , and to which they could add answer .
he there however to the Senate a average for do this kind of speech and this is the notice of motion or the notice of inquiry .
after a notice of a day , necessary in the two case , the speech is sir .
honourable senators , hence the way appropriate of raise of the questions in this House .
nothing not we prevent of proceed therefore .
the notice of a day is required for a good reason .
if the speech of the Throne rest recorded to the Paper during too long , you risk of use this section of the Order of the day to of other purposes that the purposes ensuing .
the Senator Kinsella concluded , in if screening of figures , that the time Allocation to the debate on the speech of the Throne not is not sufficient .
I not want not me moquer of him , but to the page doubling of the Debates of the Senate , he concluded :
to the pace of two p.m. by day , [ ... [ that limited a total of 16 p.m. .
according this scenario , seulement32 senators could comment this who must be , of the point of view of the government , the great bill overall of the session .
least of the third of the members of the Senate could therefore participate to the debate ...
honourable senators , let - me of correct the figures of the Senator Kinsella .
if each Senator can speak pendant15 minutes and if we can spend two p.m. by day to the discussion , then eight senators could each day speak of the Adresse to His Excellency .
by therefore , if we autorisions 16 p.m. of debate - eight days expanded by two p.m. by day - 64 senators could take the speak , be two time more that the number carried by the Senator Kinsella and approximately the two third of the senators in this House .
you not can not say that this be unreasonable .
according the assumption of the Senator Kinsella , be two p.m. by day during 14 days , this proposal step ?112 senators of take the speak .
to my notice , this is there many more of time that the debate not in request .
the Senator Carstairs :
this is more of senators that he there in has to the total !
the Senator Hays :
in fact , since 1967 , the number average of senators having spoke of the speech of the Throne if figure very exactly to 20,73 .
by therefore , little important the way of neat , the motion guarantees that all the senators who the wish able normally participate to the debate .
of more , and that int?ressera my colleagues of the other side , the precedents seem dealt in favour of 8 days and nonde 14 .
the comment 271.1 of Beauchesne valid follows :
after that the government has proposed and seconded the motion of Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne , the House limit of eight days of sitting to the maximum for complements the debate on the motion .
honourable senators , this is exactly the even comment mentioned in the rules in the other place .
in our House , honourable senators , this was the use profession by many , there including by my predecessor , the hon. Senator Graham .
the 2 October 1986 , the Conservatives , by the through of the Senator Doody , have fact approve a motion identical by the Senate .
then , of new , the 13 December 1988 , the senators have given their approval to numerous occasions to this motion who has been accepted to the unanimously when she has been introduced by the Senator Frith , in 1983 .
in summary , honourable senators , the amendment not is not valid to my notice , not so because that the calculus are erron?s , but particularly because that he will to the conflict of all the precedents and because that he draw unnecessarily the debate on a about , then that the time Allocation enough ample .
the figures are enough ?loquents .
( on the motion of the Senator DeWare , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act on the Parliament of the Canada
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Senator Grafstein ) .
the metaphor , the link beyond between the words and the thinking , has ?merg? as the cornerstone of affects of the history .
the logical , of Locke to Bosanquet , has developed the words to the unequalled .
the logiciens not have however not succeeded to understand the spirit po?tique .
also the poetry has she ?merg? indemne to the long of the unwelcome , envelopp?e of mystery between history and science , between myth and truth , as the more endorses annonciatrice of the literature and of the culture .
the great criticism Owen Barfield has a day wrote : to Conformity point of touch the more obvious between the sense and the poetry is the metaphor . to
the metaphor , shortline Shelley , has d?limit? the field flou between the words and the thinking .
the words was the poetry before the prose .
and this is therefore that fact heated the debate on this that please the poetry and the history .
the history is - she truth , or the truth if indicates she better in the recount or the aust?rit? of the poetry ?
spend cleansing to grant era common , to our cybermonde , of the books to the claviers of computer .
the rise quick of the media electronic , who will now soon exceeded by Internet , has forced some pseudo - criticism to support , for thrust a false clameur , that the age of the literature , and therefore the age of the poetry and of the prose , affects to his end .
for paraphrasing Mark Twain , the announcement of the death of the literature is rather premature .
you can support with more of force that to the age hamstrung , the importance of the literature , the emphasis of the poetry , becoming now still more important that before for a society civil .
the poetry contains the history popular and the memory popular as the history only not can succeed to the do .
how we memories - we the facts historic ?
to the during of the period unto of David , he there had the psaumes .
in the war of the P?loponn?se , he there had the Iliade .
in the first era Christian , he there had the Sermon on the montagne .
in the Prime Commonwealth British , he there had the sad poetry of Milton .
the First War World , who is illustr?e in the questions who we around , not is - she not ?voqu?e to Sen in the Smart At cast of honour ?
before the arrived of the Europeans to the Canada , the mythes po?tiques of the Peoples aboriginal abondaient in our country .
even Jacques Cartier was poet .
soon that he has accost? on the land who if appellerait the Canada , our country is became rich in po?tes and in poetry .
more of 1 500 po?tes have been published to the Canada .
we have had the happy of welcome to the Senate the late Jean LeMoyne , who we has realized visit in as that poet of deprivation .
you me said that the Canada account the more great number of po?tes published by capita in the world .
all the country , great and grandchildren , familiar a regain of life through to the words of their po?tes .
we have a nice pl?iade m?connue of po?tes : of Atwood to Callahan , to Klein and to Cohen , of Johnson to Pratt , to Birney and to Scott .
Louis Riel was a poet whose the exclusivity have been published .
in French , of LaPointe to Miron , to Legault , to Henault and to Roy , a rich treasury of poetry and of imagination creative continues of ambiguously .
to the eve of the next millennium , honourable senators , not appropriate - he not of red?finir the role of the poet to the Canada ?
since the 16 century , the poet official of the Court is considered as a part vital and Jake of the life of the Anglais .
to the end of the years 30 , the Library of Congress , to Washington , has reprinted the idea and if is associated a to poet - board to .
with this simple bill , we could celebrate the art of the po?tes and occurrences the po?tes , the Parliament and the people in a great harmony creative .
the approach portion in this bill of bill is simple and effective in words of cost :
the Speaker of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of the Commons , seize of together , choose the poet official of the Parliament to departure of a list confidentielle of three names Before by a Committee chaired by the biblioth?caire Parliamentary and composed by elsewhere of the administrator General of the Library national , of the archiviste national of the Canada , of the Commissioner to the languages official of the Canada and of the chairman of the Council of the Arts of the Canada .
the duties of the poet official are minimalistes , and this is wanted .
to the during of his mandate of two years , the poet official of the Parliament :
has ) cheques of the 9uvres of poetry , including to the purposes of the ceremonies official of the Parliament ;
b ) situations of the sittings of Reading of poetry ;
c ) describes the biblioth?caire Parliamentary regarding the bizarre of the Library and the tip own to enrich similar - side in the field of the culture ;
e ) assure of the duties related to the request of the chairmen or of the biblioth?caire Parliamentary .
honourable senators , the duties ensuing in this bill of bill if want little complex and little exigeantes .
nothing not should prevent the poet of write of the poetry .
honourable senators , I you recommends of well examine this modest bill of bill .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . )
the Union Monetary European
the report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign - Stands of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not rise not the speak for speak of the report , but for ask to the Senate the leave of replace my behalf to extend of the Senator Stewart , met given that extend - side is now to the retirement .
I think that the debate should be recorded to the behalf of a Senator in service .
the hon. P . Derek Lewis ( His Hon. the Speaker Acting ) :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the debate is order to the behalf of the Senator Hays . )
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of study the facts new regarding the Assisted and the suicide attended
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Carstairs , seconded by the hon. Senator Mercier :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology be authorized to examine for in do report the facts new Own since the Tabled , in June 1995 , of the report final of the Committee Senate Special on the Assisted and the assistance to the suicide entitled :
of the life and of the death .
more particularly , that the Committee be authorized to examine :
the legislation in which have been implemented in implement the recommendations unanimous revitalizing in the report ;
2 . Conformity evolution to the Canada of the different questions scrutinized in the report ;
3 . Conformity evolution to the abroad of the different questions scrutinized in the report ;
that the Committee presented his report final to the more later 6 June 2000 . - (
the hon. Senator Kinsella ) .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , we , of this side - side , are loans to conclude the debate on this question to this time - side .
his Hon. the Speaker Acting :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the situation of the aboriginal and their future
inquiry - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the inquiry of the hon. Senator Gill , calling the attention of the Senate on the situation of the aboriginal order of we allow of do the point and of reflect on the measures update for the future . - (
the hon. Senator Watt ) .
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I souhaiterais let this inquiry to the behalf of the Senator Watt , but I like speak of this about today today if that you agreeable .
his Hon. the Speaker Acting :
is - this of agreed honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Carstairs :
honourable senators , each time that I account in my province , to the Manitoba , I rise the road 59 who proceeded by Broken Head , a community aboriginal .
I proceeded before a school called Sergeant socialist Prince School .
the Sergeant socialist Prince has been the military aboriginal the more affirms of the two war global .
he has served in fact to the during of the Second War World .
yet , when the Sergeant Prince and business home him , during 15 years , he not has could vote in the framework of the election federal or provincial .
I have always thought that the better legislation never taken by the very hon. John Diefenbaker , and his government , has been of give to the aboriginal of the country the right of vote to the election federal .
when I proceeded before this school , I expeditiously to the situation of the aboriginal .
in effect , because that I have grew to Halifax , I have had very little of contacts with the aboriginal .
I the praising sometimes when they scattering in city , to the spring , sell of the choirs of May , the fleur embl?matique of the province .
they frappaient sometimes to the door and we their achetions always of the choirs .
this was my only touch with the aboriginal in my province .
the aboriginal not make not a part important of the population of the Nova - Nova .
by against , their contribution is certainly important .
however , when I have d?m?nag? in Alberta in 1965 , I me am stiff in a class of daughters to leSt. Mary St. Girls High School , with of the young women of this that you called to the then the Scarcee Reserve , who was stretch to the limit of the city .
this was the only school of studies high where she had the right of go .
these daughters were always weakened to the gap of all the other daughters of the class .
they participaient rarely to the discussions of the class and abandonnaient very quickly the studies .
very little of between they 578 the 10e year , and I not me recall not that a only of between they be arrived in 11e year .
honourable senators , I like power say that the situation has substantially changed since 1965 , but the truth is that she not has not many changed for the aboriginal of the country .
in effect , when I enseignais to Winnipeg in 1981 , I me remind of a young man in the during of geography of 10e year who if is rose and has said of way injurieuse this that he relaxed of the aboriginal .
he me has multitude totally stup?faite .
I me acknowledge stand in the class , in as that professor , and ?coutais a star of 15 years speak of other human , of his fellow of the province of the Manitoba , in d?bitant of the lies and of the things offensive that he not could have learned that of the mouth of his parents , of his colleagues or of his fellow .
after me be postponed of the seriousness downpayment and have began to do of the comments on some of his comments , I have found that he needed do a unity of this during on the life of the aboriginal to the Canada and I me am implementation to the book .
I fear not be never came to across of the prejudice of this young man .
I was fascin?e by the fact that he not was not born to the Canada .
this was a 1915 .
he was came to the Canada to the age of two or three years .
his parents were educated , well ?duqu?s .
his father was professor of math?matiques ; his mother enseignait to the Faculty of art dental .
this was of the people educated .
yet , this star had a opinion so racist on our aboriginal that this was troubling .
I suppose therefore that I not chair not should be if vehemence when I have been convoqu?e to the school of my daughter Catherine when she was in 6e year .
by following of a bad experience that she had vindication in 5e year , we had decided of the send in a other school .
impossible in a new environment , Cathi not said not great - something , this is - to - say until to the day where he there has had a discussion in his class on the aboriginal .
the students have fact of the comments negative .
new in this class , Cathi , to the great pride of his mother , has sudden said that the students not knew not well of what he was question .
she has reminded the fact that I was retourn?e to the education after his birth and that I had committed a Crie of the North of the Alberta as gouvernante .
this that Cathi knew of the aboriginal , she the had learned of Theresa .
similar - side him had unequal this that he there had of better in his community .
honourable senators , little after have been elected to the Assembly legislative of the Manitoba , I am processes visit the school of the bunch The grew .
Oscar Lathlin , who was then Leader and is now Minister to the within of the government of the Manitoba , had transf?r? the students of the Division school of Kelsey to The grew for that they carry be ?duqu?s in the school of the contingency .
he felt that they not tarpaper not in their school the experience cultural that they altering live , that this school not could not answer to their needs and he wanted that they era home them , in their environment .
Mr. . Lathlin me had delve to visit the school .
I must say that this that I there have seen was enough remarkable .
in 1965 , the students if ennuyaient , but in this school aboriginal where you enseignait the customs and the language aboriginal in more of the rest of the program school of the province , the students were p?tillants and d?bordaient of enthusiasm .
this was remarkable .
the students aboriginal have of elsewhere won the majority of the price to the exposing scientific of the North of the Manitoba .
this was a event remarkable .
honourable senators , I have seen the even phenomenon when I have visited the school For of report Earth to Winnipeg .
this is can - be for that that I am a if ardente partisan of the self government for the aboriginal .
I wish to this principle because that I am outset that the aboriginal not able never do the progress that they should do as that they not if administreront not them - same , and we have the responsibility of do in sort that they parviennent to this self government .
honourable senators , this is a secret of polichinelle to the Senate - and I know that number of between you familiar well the Affairs aboriginal - that he there has aged least of aboriginal that of not - aboriginal in the institutions of education post .
certainly , of the progress have been earned .
he there has now more of aboriginal who are doctors , lawyers and dentists .
we have even the fortunate of rely among we , in this Room , not least of five senators aboriginal who Whelans all a important contribution to our institution .
but this is manning .
of other statistics 18.7 that the Peoples aboriginal arise the rate of hospitalization the more high to the Canada , as to the birth , this who is tragic , that home the young .
these Late are occurred to of the accidents , to of the fire and - this who is the worse tragedy of all - to of the suicides , the young aboriginal showing the rate of suicide the more high home the young to the Canada .
by elsewhere , no of between you not if surprendra of learn that , home the aboriginal , the diabetes is end?mique .
a doctor has even compar? this illness to the small v?role or to the rougeole , that we have concerning with we in as that immigrants counterparts on this mainland and who have resulted the death of a number record of victims .
now , they milking prematurely to because of the diabetes instable .
we know that the diabetes can if control by a di?te .
you not affecte not enough of resources to the fight against the diabetes for that this illness not kills more the aboriginal to the Canada .
no of between you not if surprendra not more of know that the aboriginal have still the rate of unemployment the more high .
he not is not unusual that 90 per of the aboriginal Concludes to the work ensure to the unemployment .
he not is not unusual in the North of the Manitoba that the children shifted of the speedily with the justice because that , frankly , these children rightly that he worth better live to the centre of detention juvenile of Winnipeg that in their own community aboriginal .
honourable senators , when the Senator Gill has spoke of his objectives and of his aspirations , I not have could me prevent of thinking that we educated all enormous of his presence to the Senate .
we in educated all because that he we learned constantly , to the namely of the senators Watt , Chalifoux and Adams , the questions having of the effects on the aboriginal .
the aboriginal have the right of be treaties as of the citizens to share full of this country .
this is therefore say that he must their give the same opportunities that to all the other Canadians of benefit of care of health , of a education and of a government of quality .
we forward now since a sure number of years a response official to the report of the Commission Royal on the Peoples aboriginal .
we not have not received of response official .
I please each of between you of require of the government to the power that he comprehensive the more quickly possible a response official .
honourable senators , to the during of the past weeks , I have followed with interest the visit of the members in the province of British - British in the framework of their study and of their assessment of the treaty nisga' has .
the racism exiled who , to my notice , is unfortunately always present in our society if is concern .
to my great regret , he is acquiescence by a party policy that I consider d?tritivore .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Carstairs :
I give to my colleagues aboriginal the insurance that I the support and that I the encourage in the court of their fight designed to do of the members of their people of enemies citizens Canadian .
the Senator Kinsella :
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , the speech of the Senator Carstairs is united .
he if can that we hurt in considering of create of more great problems for the future .
I am sensitive to the question on which he if is sir .
a other something me agace in the speech of the Senator Carstairs .
the report of the commission Royal wended of the comments probantes regarding the Late of children , the problems r?voltants in the field of the education and the problems of Order mentally and emotionally quasi sterilize to resolve .
why the government not has he not still responded with force before these problems ?
is - this only a question of money or must - he there see other something ?
the Senator Carstairs :
Senator Grafstein , I not think not that this be only a question of money .
I believe that he there has there a lack of showing policy .
this lack of showing policy will perdurer because that he not there has not enough of Canadians not aboriginal of all the horizons who if are montr?s loans to defend the because of our Peoples aboriginal .
the Senator Grafstein :
the hon. Senator Chalifoux is here .
she and me we we are barons on the file of the without - homeless of Toronto .
she has sought also actively that me to convince the government of if attack to the problem of the without - homeless .
we are enchant?s that you gave responsible a Minister of disseminating this effort .
she has fact a wonderful work in all the country .
of more , we hope , in the sillage of the speech of the Throne , power convince the cabinet of act quickly and assiduously .
such are our expectations .
that met said , in struck the file of the without - homeless of Toronto , I me am heurt? to a very puzzling problem .
in under of the Constitution of the Canada - I not know not if this is the section 95 or 92 - , this is of the government that authority the Indian and the Lands Indian .
gold , I have been surprised of see that , notwithstanding the Constitution , the departments not assumaient not their obligations Constitutional to the regard of the Indian who live to the outside of the reserves .
of where the seriously problem referred we are face to Toronto , there where a great majority of the without - homeless are of the aboriginal who live outside of the reserves , to the outside of the Lands Indian .
gold , the government not has plans responded opposite to this deficiency in this who respect the obligation made by the Constitution .
then , who is responsible ?
I request to the Senator , who just of do a very wise speech , if she has explor? this deficiency in Equity of responsibility and if we , of this House , can do someone something for rectify to this irresponsabilit? constitutional .
the Senator Carstairs :
honourable senators , I like say to the hon. Senator that this problem constitutional not if is asked that in the case of the without - homeless , but that I me am battue in my riding for a question similar who respect the care of health for the children aboriginal .
when a child is rodents of a community aboriginal and transf?r? in a service for children of a centre of the Science of the health , all the care easier to this child are to the reminder of the government federal because that he if is of a child alive in a community aboriginal who falls therefore of the responsibility federal .
however , for of the reasons that I not understand not , the province of the Manitoba , is responsible of the services of care to home .
by following of a dispute of jurisdiction between the Minister provincial of the Health and his counterpart federal , these children aboriginal remain often to the Hospital because that , a time that they expanding in their community , no service of care not their is assured .
the taxpayers Canadian pay therefore more for that these children ensure soign?s to the Hospital .
this who is more important , these children are planners of their family and of their community and not can not maximiser their opportunity of gu?rison in met deposited of the beings who the unhappy and if in roles the better .
I chair well wanted have a solution to propose to the Senator .
all this that I then him say is that we must hold many of other debates as extend underway by the Senator Gill , in hoping that the other place if there interest .
the hon. Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , this Exchange and the interesting presentation of the Senator Carstairs me have fact thinking to the bill of bill C - 31 , that I have had the d?plaisir of shepherding to the House of the Commons to the beginning of the years 80 .
to the then , we dimensions the question of the rights of the women valour in tribe .
to the end , he if 13 of put end to a aberration by which a aboriginal who careful for wife a not - aboriginal could convey to his children the rights prior to his birth and other rights whose he could if unused , then that if the sister of this man just to Murphy a not - aboriginal , she weakening all his rights tribal , all his rights to the land therefore that his right of live in the contingency .
she not could nothing convey of his heritage ancestral to his butchered of second or of third generation .
this bill of bill party allow to the women of go on the Lands r?serv?es to the aboriginal , their territory ancestral , and of interfere of all the rights and privileges accorded to their brothers , uncles and Fathers .
unfortunately , he not there has not been expected enough of funds for fund the construction of houses or of schools for allow to the children and to the families in this situation of if integrate fully in their companies respective .
he is unfortunate that we not news not built the kind of facilities who could answer to the needs of these families in Equity of housing or provide of the schools for receive these children , this who has led to a dysfonctionnement social to the held of facilitate the life of these women and of their family .
her the Senator could - she we propose a way whatever who we step to we , to the Senate , and to our colleagues aboriginal of exercise a some pressure on the other place , for meet the commitments , constitutional or not , who represent of the values fundamental in the society Canadian for that we can all be gathered in a only people ?
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , the period portion for this debate is completed .
you pleasure - he of the extend for allow to her the Senator Carstairs of answer ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Carstairs :
honourable senators , the Senator Finestone has specifically asked this that our House could do .
I believe that we have two choice .
all of first , we can have Order to the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal .
this is the Committee who is responsible of study , and who has examined this kind of question .
however , he sometimes sometimes that he be necessary of watch a little our committees .
I believe that this that the Committee appr?cierait without doubt , and this was the case by the past , this would the Tabled of a motion to the Senate rightfully our desire of see the Committee of the Peoples aboriginal / a some study .
the Senator Finestone :
that this motion be proposed .
( on the motion of the Senator Carstairs , the debate is adjourned . )
Affairs legal and Constitutional
Authorized to the Committee of clerical of the services
the hon. Lorna Milne , pursuant to the notice march November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , personnel , employees of office or other elements necessary for examine of the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have been d?f?r?es .
( the motion is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee to according his deliberations by the media of information electronic
the hon. Lorna Milne , pursuant to the notice march November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional be authorized to allow the Electronic of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , of manner to bother the least possible his business .
( the motion is agreed . )
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Marjory LeBreton , to the behalf of the Senator Kirby , pursuant to the notice of the 24 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology be authorized to sit during the sittings of the Senate of the Monday 29 November , of the Tuesday 30 November and of the Wednesday 1 December 99 , and that the application of the subsection 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , the motion who we is introduced fate a little of the plain in this sense that no hour not is set .
I understand that Tuesday approach and that we not regards not the opportunity of examine the question before , but I like to the least know to what time the Committee wish if meet .
I valid the question because that the use like that the Committee seat to a hour given , even if the Senate sitting still to this time - there .
the motion not said nothing to this about .
the Senator LeBreton :
for Monday , this not is not a problem .
Monday , we si?gerons to 13 p.m. .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate if adjourned to the Tuesday 30 November 99 , to 14 p.m. . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 13
the Tuesday 30 November 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
' ' '
the rights of the man
the wind go
the Civic fought of Ottawa
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the Act on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Report of the Committee
the adjournment
Library of the Parliament
notice of motion Authorize the Committee Joint Standing to sit in even time that the Senate
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe - Position eighteenth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary held to St. - P?tersbourg , in Russia - Tabled of the report of lad?l?gation Canadian
the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe - Position eighteenth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary held to St. - P?tersbourg , in Russia - Notice of inquiry
PERIOD PERIOD question
the transport
v. of the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian
the v. of the operations of Inter - Canadian - Position possible of a review by the Committee of the transport and of the Communications
the v. of the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - Position possible of a assistance government
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the Quebec - Changes conditions Moneys of a referendum - Conformity role of the Senate
the transport
the v. of the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - Position response of the government
the v. of the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - Conformity effect on the small communities
the heritage
the possible of a behind in the construction of the new Museum of the War
the funding of the new Museum of the War
election Canada
the Manitoba - Position loss of data negotiates
the transfer of the data personal - Conformity principle of the consent
the Manitoba - Position loss of data negotiates - Changes procedures of security regarding the data personal
the fisheries and the Oceans
the provinces Maritimes - Position decision of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of fishing of the aboriginal - Changes funds 118.8 to the Purchase of licences for the aboriginal
Questions delayed to of the questions Oral
the Solicitor General
the Service Canadian of the Intelligence of security - Position loss of documents classifi?s - Conformity review of the Committee of monitoring of the activities of the Intelligence of security
the trade international
the Agreement of free - Exchange North - American - Conformity proceedings basically by a society Processors in consequential of the loss of a contract of Purchase of water in vrac - Position Position of the government
the ORDRE OF orders
the speech of the Throne
motion of directed in response - Continued of the debate
privileges , Rules and procedure
Adopted of the second report of the Committee
third report of the Committee - Stands of the debate
the SENATE
the Tuesday 30 November 99
the sitting is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker met to the Chair .
prayers .
the rights of the man
the wind go
the hon. Calvin Woodrow Ruck :
to the beginning of the War , a great number of officers of the RCMP have , seems he , decided of troquer the brutes of the police 72 against extend of the forces Armed .
they if are incurred in the army of land , the Shipping and the army of the air .
the enough of the Mounted Royal of the Canada if are anywhere substantially d?garnis .
the officer of the RCMP responsible of the d?tachement of Sydney has past a announcement in the deplore local for streams of the young physiquement Concludes in the enough of this body of police .
these two young black were of the number of those who souhaitaient if enr?ler .
the officer in position to Sydney not knew not what do of these two young black .
to the then , no Noir not had never joined the enough of the RCMP - of the least not to the Cape - Cape .
this officer if is developed in report with the Headquarters General of the Division H to Halifax for ask of the instructions on the way of resolve the problem asked by these two young black .
the members of the d?tachement of Halifax , not knowing not too them not more this that he probably of do , if are to their turn developed in report with the Headquarters General in our nice capital federal , Ottawa .
I not me remind more if they if are qualified or not .
always is - he that or the a or the other not has never fact part of the RCMP .
by the following , the rumour if is widespread according which the RCMP Rouyn to the within of the community black .
of other persons have wanted propose their term , but they not have not had of fortunate not more .
the officer responsible to Ottawa has advised the responsible to Halifax of let these candidates if present to the review , adding that they not the corvette can - be not .
he seems indeed that they not the shifted not succeeded because that or the a or the other of these two men not has never brought the tunique Red .
this is a good indication of this who if recovered to the then .
the change if is underway in Nova - Nova and , I believe , elsewhere to the Canada .
he there has now a great number of black in the enough of the RCMP and I believe understand that they doing of the good work .
they if seize of their duties , and this , to the behalf of the justice and of the equity for all .
we let these changes if produce and this is very encouraging for the members of our community .
our young men can now aspire to of many positions for capably , during of the years , you felt that they not r?unissaient not the qualities intensive .
all that has changed .
good number of our young men and women have fact of the studies academic , have obtained their diploma in right and have then open a cabinet of lawyers .
w ( 1410 )
the Ombudsman of the Nova - Nova is a young Noir and he if find that this is my son , Douglas Ruck .
to my knowledge , he has been the Prime Noir of the Nova - Nova to receive a such honour .
he is came here , to Ottawa , for speak of the constituted of create a body national of this kind .
he has command travelled .
the wind of the change importantly on the Nova - Nova in this who respect the Eligibility and the believe of resource .
you can do the work pursuing that the resources necessary ensure implemented to our clause and pursuing that we hurt treaties as the other .
this is therefore that That if proceeded .
he there has of major improvements .
good number of our young , daughters and boys , hand to the university and end by strive of good jobs .
hence in big where we in are .
we continue of advisor to the young of not not abandon their studies , of if tutorial and of contributing to the development of their province and of their country .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Civic fought of Ottawa
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , the day of the 29 November 99 is a date to supporter in the history of the Canada .
three judges of the Court divisionnaire of the Ontario have realized a decision unanimous in favour of the keeping of the Civic fought .
these judges have ruled that the Commission of restructuring of the services of health of the government of the Ontario had acted disguised in d?cr?tant the closure of this Hospital , the only Hospital university French in Ontario .
the Canadians French of the Ontario if rejoice of this decision , but remain anxieux opposite to the reaction of the government spend , who if is settled of refer the passing to the commission of restructuring in mentionnant that this is to she to resolve this file .
this even commission if is reluctant , yesterday , of answer that his only mandate was of sent the services of health in Ontario .
we are in a situation someone little difficult .
the question who if valid is of know who will the courage and the integrity for move to the actions .
the courts have tranch? , this is to the turn of the government of act .
finally , I thank of the extension of the heart all the stakeholders who have invested time and money order that the francophones of the Ontario carry finally obtain justice .
the Senator homme man :
hear !
the hon. Marie - P .
honourable senators , as the said if well the Senator Gauthier , November 99 happens in the history of the Canada as a time historic .
yesterday , the Court divisionaire of the Ontario has given gain of because to the Civic fought .
the court has claimed that the decision of the Commission of restructuring of the services of health of the Ontario of reduce the services to the Civic fought bafouait the principle even of protection and of respect of the rights of the minorities , principle defended by the Constitution Canadian .
the court has therefore cancelled the guidelines of the commission .
this morning , the daily Conformity deteriorated wrote that Ms Gis?le Lalonde , chairman of radiation Monfort , adjective the judgment of the more great victory never granted by the francophone Ontario and even Canadian .
honourable senators , the chairman of radiation Monfort , Ms Lalonde , the chairman of the board of Administration of the Hospital , Ms Michelle of Courville - Nicol , the Association Canadian French of the Ontario , the hon. Senator Jean - Robert Gauthier , therefore that all those and those who have worked and behind for save the single centre hospital of language French in Ontario , deserve our sincere congratulations .
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. Michael Kirby , chairman of the Committee Senate permanent of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology , tabled the Prime report of the Committee pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules .
( the text of the report found to the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
the Act on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Report of the Committee
the hon. Lorna Milne , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , presented the report following :
the MARDI 30 November 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional has the honour of present his
second REPORT
your Committee , referred has been obedience the Chapter of bill C - 7 , Act amend the Act on the stopped judicial and a other bill in consequential , has , pursuant to the Order of referred of the Wednesday 17 November 99 , examined obedience bill of bill and in fact now report with the amendments following :
page 2 to 4 , to the section 6 :
has ) replace the line 40 , page 2 , by this who following :
to 6.3 ( 1 ) Changes definitions who followed if apply to the present section .
to child to Anybody citizen of least of ten - eight years .
to human vuln?rable to Anybody who , in reason of his age , of a prohibits or of other circumstances temporary or permanent :
has ) be is in Position of addiction by report to of other persons ;
b ) be short a risk of abuse or of abuse more high that the population in General of the share of a human in Position of authority or of confidence by report to she .
( 2 ) Conformity Commissioner must include in the to ;
b ) replace , in the version French , the line 43 , page 2 , by this who following :
to Royal of the Canada a indication allowing to ;
c ) replace the lines 3 and 4 , page 3 , by this who following :
to nation for a offence sexual clause to the Printed to the regard of which he him has been delivered to ;
d ) add , after the line 5 , page 4 , this who following :
to ( 9 ) Conformity Governor in board can , by ascertain , amend the Printed for there add or in retrancher a offence sexual . to ;
e ) change the along hamstrung of subsection , therefore that of Presented of the references , who in clauses .
has ) remove of the lines 10 and 11 , page 5 ;
b ) remove of the lines 16 to 18 , page 5 ;
c ) change the along alphab?tique of the sub , therefore that of Presented of the references , who in clauses .
3 . Page 5 : add after the line 33 , page 5 , this who following :
4 . Page 6 : add , after the line 3 , page 6 , this who following :
to Printed
( section 8.1 )
Printed
( paragraphs 6.3 ( 1 ) and ( 9 ) )
1 .
the offences to the provisions following of the Code criminal :
has ) the subsection 7 ( 4.1 )
( offences of Order body involving the children to the abroad , by action or omission ) ;
b ) the section 151 ( contacts sexual - child of least of 14 years ) ;
c ) the section 152 ( incitation to of the contacts sexual - child of least of 14 years ) ;
d ) the section 153 ( human in situation of authority by report to a human citizen of to the least 14 years , but of least of 18 years ) ;
e ) the section 153.1 ( human in situation of authority by report to a human having a prohibits ) ;
f ) the section 155 ( inceste ) ;
g ) the section 159 ( relations purchase anales ) ;
p.m. ) the subsection 160 ( 3 ) ( bestialit? in presence of a child child of least of 14 years , or incitation of a child of least of 14 years to mistake the bestialit? ) ;
i ) the notwithstanding 163 ( 1 ) has ) ( corruption of moeurs ) ;
j ) the notwithstanding 163 ( 2 ) has ) ( corruption of moeurs ) ;
problem ) the section 163.1 ( pornography juvenile ) ;
l ) the section 168 ( implementation to the position of things obsc?nes ) ;
Mr. ) the section 170 ( father , mother or admissibility who commit of entremetteur ) ;
67 ) the section 171 ( petty of home who allows of the actions sexual avenues ) ;
o ) the section 172 ( corruption of children ) ;
prospered ) the section 173 ( actions ind?centes ) ;
q ) the subsection grew ( 2 ) ( live of the products of the prostitution of a human citizen of least of 18 years ) ;
Q ) the subsection grew ( 2.1 )
( live of the products of the prostitution of a human citizen of least of 18 years ) ;
St. ) the subsection grew ( 4 ) ( allocations or attempt of allocations of the services sexual of a human citizen of least of 18 years ) ;
Reading ) the section 271 ( abuse sexual ) ;
u ) the subsection 272 ( 1 ) and the notwithstanding 272 ( 2 ) has ) ( abuse sexual with a weapon to gun ) ;
v ) the subsection 272 ( 1 ) and the notwithstanding 272 ( 2 ) b ) ( abuse sexual without weapon to gun ) ;
w ) the section 273 ( abuse sexual serious ) ;
there ) the notwithstanding 273.3 ( 1 )
z ) the notwithstanding 273.3 ( 1 )
z .6 )
the section 463 in this who has relates to the attempt of mistake a offence clause to the presented Printed or to the collusive , after the fact , of the perp?tration of a such offence .
has ) the subsection 146,594 ( 1 ) ( reports sexual with a human of the pardon f?minin citizen of least of 14 years ) ;
b ) the subsection 146,594 ( 2 ) ( reports sexual with a human of the pardon f?minin citizen of 14 years or more but of least of 16 years ) ;
c ) the section 151 ( s?duction of a human of the pardon f?minin citizen of 16 years or more but of least of 18 years ) ;
d ) the section 153 ( reports sexual with his nice - daughter , and cetera , or his used ) ;
e ) the section 155 ( sodomie or bestialit? ) ;
f ) the section 157 ( actions of grossi?re ind?cence ) ;
g ) the section 166 ( father , mother or admissibility who because the d?florement ) ;
p.m. ) the section 167 ( petty of home who allows the d?florement ) .
has ) the section 144 ( rape ) ;
b ) the section 145 ( attempt of rape ) ;
c ) the section 178 ( attentat to the pudeur of a human of the pardon f?minin ) ;
d ) the section 156 ( attentat to the pudeur of a human of the pardon male ) ;
e ) the section 245 ( Means of fact simple ) ;
f ) the subsection 246 ( 1 ) ( Means of fact with intention of mistake a act criminal ) to
respectfully submitted ,
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when taken - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Milne , the study of the report is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
the adjournment
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the section 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate if adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until to tomorrow , the Wednesday 1 December 99 , to 13 p.m. 30 .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Library of the Parliament
notice of motion Authorize the Committee Joint Standing to sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the mercredi1er December 99 , I move :
that the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament be authorized to sit during the sittings and the adjournments of the Senate ; and
that a message be Message to the House of the Commons for the in inform .
[ more later [
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe - Position eighteenth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary held to St. - P?tersbourg , in Russia - Tabled of the report of lad?l?gation Canadian
leave having been granted of return to the Tabled of the reports of delegations Delegations :
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table , in the two languages official , the report of the delegation Canadian of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe , who has represented the Canada to the eighteenth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe , held to St. - P?tersbourg , in Russia , of the 6 to the 12 July 99 .
the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe - Position eighteenth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary held to St. - P?tersbourg , in Russia - Notice of inquiry
leave having been granted of return to the notice of inquiry :
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I give notice that , Thursday next , the 2 December 99 , I call the attention of the Senate on the report of the delegation Canadian of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe , who has represented the Canada to the eighteenth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe , held to St. - P?tersbourg , in Russia , of the 6 au12 July 99 .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the transport
v. of the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
I am course that the Minister , who just also of the Canada Atlantic , has took note of the fact that the a of the carriers Threat of our region not is more in operation these days - side .
that has a impact direct not only on the Airports of the region , but also on a important reach of the workers .
w ( 1420 )
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , unfortunately , I not have not had the opportunity of read or of hear the statement made by the chairman of Inter - Canadian .
I believe understand that Inter - Canadian continues of have of the talks with his major partners , this is - to - say his employees , NAV CANADA , Canadian and of other Arrangement .
the purpose is of solve some problems and of ensure the court of the services .
you me said also that the service Air is continued to all the destinations tour by Inter - Canadian to share three places where of other solutions are available .
that shows well the period of uncertainty in which is filibusters the sector of the transportation Air .
that highlights still more the focus on the principles viewed by the Minister of the Transport to the House of the Commons and publicly .
I will repeat these principles here for the radical of the honourable senators .
the statement of principles ?mise by the Minister ?num?rait clear the five objectives of the policy public of the government , this is - to - say the protection of the consumers against the price inordinate ; the keeping of the services to the small communities , this who concern particularly the hon. Senator ; the protection of the rights and the concerns of the employees ; the keeping of the competition in the legislation of the possible ; the control Canadian in the facts .
these objectives remain those of the government .
the v. of the operations of Inter - Canadian - Position possible of a review by the Committee of the transport and of the Communications
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I thank the Minister of his response .
I note that he has reprinted in his response the statement in which the Minister of the Transport has statement these five principles for the first time to St. John , to the New - Brunswick , to the end of the been or to the beginning of the fall .
the Minister of the Transport has reiterated these principles when he has appeared before the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications and when he has appeared before the Committee Standing of the transport of the House of Commons .
that seems be the cornerstone cornerstone of the response of the government to the problem of Inter - Canadian , who is well real .
the 13 August , then that the problem not was that appr?hend? , the government has invoqu? the power extraordinary expected to the section 47 of the Act on the transport .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I acknowledge the concern implicit in the question of the hon. Senator .
however , he should rather contact his question to the chairman of the Committee .
I not like not spokesmen the authority of the Committee in the Equity .
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , I wanted contact my question to the chairman of the Committee .
in effect , by courtesy , I have tried of the join , but you me has said that she not would not in city of any the week .
the Canada Atlantic and of other places of the is of the Canada familiar a interruption of the services Threat regional .
this is a fact .
this not is not a situation abstraite that appr?hendait the government when he has invoqu? the section 47 .
the ascertain has been referred to the Committee .
I have attended to some of the meetings of the Committee when he has examined the five principles viewed by the Minister .
extend - side not think he not that some measures should be taken order that our Committee of the transport can if meet this week ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I know that the Minister is very aware of the situation .
in fact , he continues of the follow of almost .
we feelings that he not there will no perturbation important of the Liaison with the communities tour by Inter - Canadian .
to some places , unfortunately , the interruption of the service by Inter - Canadian not will no impact real , as this is the case to Sydney where all service had already been withdrawn before this day .
the question of the hon. Senator is important .
the Minister continues of monitor the situation .
I attention certainly the concerns of the hon. Senator to the Minister and , to the first opportunity , to the chairman of the Committee .
I me sense very difficulty to the comfortable of say that a Committee Senate should if meet words that by following of the decision of the Committee and of his chairman .
the v. of the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - Position possible of a assistance government
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
my question has relates to the situation of the society Inter - Canadian , the transporteur regional independent the more important to the Canada .
as the Senator Kinsella the has said , this transporteur Air regional connection the people of the region of the Atlantic .
since three days , however , of the hundreds and of the hundreds of travellers have seen their bills seriously disrupts by the interruption of the services and the keeping to the soil of the had of this company .
this last lengthy she - even work to a plan of survival .
met given that his survival depends including of the granting immediate of a assistance of 15 million of $ , that is - this that the government of the Canada is prepared to do for the help to answer currently to his needs financial pressants ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the government of the Canada is prepared to do in sort that no centre not be left without service .
many that I far , he not there has not for the time of centre where he not there not of service of alternative .
the Minister has said that he going follow the situation .
he is surely in communication with the responsible of Inter - Canadian .
this that he is prudent of do for the time , of the notice of the government , this is of continue to monitor the situation and ensure to this that a service of alternative be disposable .
the Senator Oliver :
honourable senators , the hon. Minister has said that many that he far , he not there has no centre in the region of the Atlantic who be without service .
gold , the services have been seriously disrupts .
many of people have seen their bills of trip retard?s and have been incommod?s because that the service has been interrompu and that the had have been finger to the soil .
in his response to the Senator Kinsella , the Leader of the government has said that he there had of other opportunities .
this not is certainly not a solution permanent .
the Minister would - he the please of we say what legislation permanent the government takes for that Inter - Canadian reprenne his prohibit soon , with a plan Standing ?
by the past , the government has helped , financially and words , the Airlines air Canadian .
that will he do for a transporteur who connection the region of the Atlantic ?
the Senator Boudreau :
this is the question the more important who concern the Minister of the Transport and the government .
the solution permanent must hold account of the objectives of policy that I have viewed he there has little of time .
the solution permanent will she a place to Inter - Canadian or to a other transporteur , we not can the say for the moment .
in appeals , we must ensure to this that the communities not ensure not private of services .
many that I far , they have of the services in this time .
he there has a solution of alternative in all the communities .
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the Quebec - Changes conditions Moneys of a referendum - Conformity role of the Senate
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , I have a question to ask to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
as the surveys the indicate , a strong majority of the Canadians of the Western support the Position firm that the Prime Minister has agreed to the regard of the sovereignists of the Quebec .
even if the government Mr. Bouchard accept the Truce of four years that has proposed the Prime Minister , that not excludes not the need of continue of ask the weakened political and legal for do opposite to all referendum to the future .
w ( 1430 )
as the Prime Minister has developed this question on the carpet , the Leader of the government believe he that the Senate has a role to play for contributing of way important to promote a discussion test and deliberately on the future of a Canada united ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , all Senator has certainly the possible of raise this question to the Senate .
of any obviously , she concern cleansing all the senators .
I me forward well to this that the opinions of the senators ensure taken in consideration in all the discussions on the questions that has raised the Senator .
the Prime Minister not has not still said how he could decide of address the important about of the lacked of the question and of the majority .
I am course that the senators discuss a opportunity of express their point of view on these questions very important .
the transport
the v. of the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - Position response of the government
the hon. Ethel Cochrane :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
he there has three days , the chairman of the company air Inter - Canadian has wrote a letter to the Minister of the Transport .
in following a committee :
the presented intended to you inform that the company Inter - Canadian if find finally in the state Tisserant whose we you have advised openly during of the months .
since the been , when has been raised for the first time the question of the taken of the control of Air Canada by the society Onex , the attention of the government if is concentr?e on the future of the two major companies air .
why , to the during of this process , the government has he fact ignoring of the concerns of the companies air regional and of their passengers ?
why that not the has he not concerns when the chairman of the company Inter - Canadian has advised the Minister of the Transport , he there has several months , that this process of merger of the major companies air would of serious consequences for the carriers regional and their passengers ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Benefit of the service to all the Canadians has always been to the centre of the concerns of the Minister of the Transport and of the government , and she the remain .
the manner whose she could change the fate particular of a transporteur to a time given is a other question .
but he rest that , according a characteristic fundamental of the policy government , he should maintain the service in all the regions Canadian , there including in the small communities that connection Inter - Canadian .
I not can comment the opinions or the actions of the chairman of this company .
however , I can grave of the comments on the Position of the government and I believe that the principle of the service to the small communities remain to the heart of the policy government .
the v. of the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - Conformity effect on the small communities
the hon. Ethel Cochrane :
since two days , you lead that he there gave of the losses of jobs challenges home Inter - Canadian .
the number of the losses of employment d?passerait widely the 800 or 900 employees of this company air .
he must rely the many workers who are Millenium to the maintenance of the aircraft in the Airports desservis by Inter - Canadian .
their jobs are also threatened .
by example , I know that soon Sunday , be before - yesterday , of the members of the staff to the soil have been developed to foot to the airport of Stephenville almost of home me , to Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
I attention also that he not there had not of service to rely of midnight Saturday night between the airport of Stephenville , to Newfoundland - Newfoundland , and the land firm to the Canada .
the government has he thought to the effect of domino who if happening and to the serious impact that he could there have on the small communities of the Canada Atlantic , of the Quebec and of elsewhere ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
in this who respect the service to Stephenville , the hon. Senator refers that he not there had not of service Air to Stephenville , that this be by the through of Air Canada or of Air Scotia .
the Senator Cochrane :
this is exactly .
the Senator Boudreau :
that not 1 not to the information that I have here .
however , I will convey this information to the Minister and him ask of the information more iterations to this regard .
the Senator Kinsella :
please check also the situation in the North - is of the New - Brunswick .
the heritage
the possible of a behind in the construction of the new Museum of the War
the hon. Norman K . Atkins :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate and respect the Museum Canadian of the War .
the hon. Barnie Associations , chairman of the Museum of the War , former veteran , member of the Council private and former Minister of the Defence , has spent many of energy order of persuade the government of consider the possible of fund the construction of a new Museum of the War .
if you you Boteler to the Corporation or to the home Vimy , who regorgent all two of activities , you find to what point they have need of a new Corporation .
you has left hear that extend - there would built to Rockcliffe , almost of the Museum national of the Flying .
the government contemplated he seriously the possible of support the institution of a new Corporation or not fact - he that contribute a response lift to this question ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the government contemplated seriously the possible of give a such support .
of fact , the government if is committed to put to the clause of the Corporation the ground of 20 Tuktoyuktuk located to Rockcliffe .
to the over of the evolution of the bill , of the funds additional must Oprah of various sources , there including of the sector private .
the government continue of be part to this bill , and I wishes highlight of new that he if is committed to provide the location necessary .
the Senator Atkins :
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I not am not to the aware of someone decision that this be of put the bill in veilleuse .
I have provided to the honourable senators the more recent information whose I limit .
you objective to determine of the sources of funding to the within of the government and a contribution Monetary of the sector private would clearly necessary .
I will me information , but I not know nothing of this that advance the Senator Atkins .
the Senator Atkins :
the Minister could can - be confirm this that I advance .
according of other rumour , Mr. Associations is if contrari? that he is prepared to resign of the Museum Canadian of the War in reason of the Position agreed by the government .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I must say of new that I not have not of information to this about .
I bring certainly share of the concerns of the hon. Senator to the Minister .
the funding of the new Museum of the War
the hon. Lowell Murray :
is - he true that the government not affectera of the funds to a new Museum of the War that if the sector private commitment of the funds ?
what could well be the excuse of a such policy ?
w ( 1440 )
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I believe understand that he there would a funding private , though the amount exactly not be not sure .
I believe understand that he there would also a appeal of funds private .
the Senator Murray :
the Minister must know that he there of other museums national , by example the Museum of the civilization , the Museum of the Gallery - Arts of the Canada , and cetera .
the Minister knows - he of other case where the funding federal for the construction and the operating of such museums has been awarded to condition that of the funds private ensure of first collected ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I known certainly of the case of funding Joint asking of the funds of the government federal and of the sector private for the too of bills valid .
that he gave been question of museums national or not , I not floor the say for the time .
the hon. Michael A . Meighen :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate admet certainly that , in a case as extend of the Museum Canadian of the War , he worth better that the government be the Leader of leadership .
the funding of the sector private must come by the following and not in Prime held .
the Leader of the government to the Senate seen - he the things of this way or is - this the contrary ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
of other sources of funding government are to the study .
we hope that the bill will soon realized .
the Senator Meighen :
the Senator Boudreau :
however , he is in the interest of all the parties that the bill gave of good opportunity of succeed .
election Canada
the Manitoba - Position loss of data negotiates
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , according the Globe The Mail of today today , the life privacy de675 100,000 thinks - be all the semiconductors of the province - has been Constitution to the months of January when a official of election Canada has lost a bunch enclosing of the information confidentiels .
he if 13 of the behalf of semiconductors , of their directed , of their date of birth , of their pardon and of their licences of driver .
these information personal are useful to the businesses legitimate as to the activities criminal .
you we said that the bunch would presumably in a held of enfouissement and that election Canada would took of the measures for that situation incident not if occurring more .
he is clear also that a principle basic relatif to the protection of the information personal has been violated , to know the principle of the consent .
the data resulting for a reason given not should never be used to a other end without the consent of the human concern?e .
some thinks not have not had the opportunity of give their consent to the a or the other level of government .
I have two questions to ask to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
of first , the government if excusera he of this unfortunate incident deposited of the population manitobaine ?
then , the government abandonnera he his attitude cavali?re and adh?rera he to the principle basic of the consent - as in this who respect the information who him are releases by of other governments that in this who respect those that he their directed ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the incident whose talking the Senator is really unfortunate and not of the all insignificant .
the bunch who has been lost wended of the information personal revenues of the Division of the semiconductors and of the licences of driver of the Manitoba .
this bunch is came in the possession of election Canada , who has recognized that she has been deplore in a bac to wastes and that she not has not been recouvr?e .
this bunch wended of the information as the behalf , the directed , the date of birth , the pardon and the statement of licences of driver and of plaque of ship of thinks .
election Canada has tenure the full responsibility of the loss and this is without hesitation that to the behalf of the government , I presented my apologize to all the persons affected .
all of following after the incident , election Canada in has informed the authorities provincial , who him had Message the bunch .
a inquiry has been implied on - the - cast .
election Canada has then fact appeal to a Auditor of the outside for move in magazine his process of security , then developed in implement the changes recommended by the Auditor .
this incident is certainly regrettable , but he is to hope that he not if again not .
the transfer of the data personal - Conformity principle of the consent
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I me delighted of this that the hon. Leader gave presented of the apologize .
this settled will of the more mobilized .
I know however if I have received a response complete in this who respect the principle of the consent .
if the Leader not can not provide the response on - the - cast , I him floor grateful of me communicate a response research on the policy of the government regarding this principle very basic .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not am not all to fact sure of well go the nature of the question supplementary .
the hon. Senator agree - she of grave to new his concern ?
the Senator Spivak :
I believe that the data who are resulting in a purpose not should not be used to a other end without the consent of the human interested .
he there has a enormous amount of information , as we the have learned elsewhere , who are Message to the government and to of other agencies .
therefore , of the businesses vendent of the understaffed of clients without the consent of the involved .
that takes the allure of a problem in itself .
I believe understand that this incident is of nature accidentelle .
that not example not least the need of clarify this that I consider as a principle extremely important .
the Senator Boudreau :
I thank the hon. Senator of his implementation to the point .
I understand his argument .
I date of obtain a statement specific regarding this policy and I the him attention .
the Manitoba - Position loss of data negotiates - Changes procedures of security regarding the data personal
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , during of the review to the Senate of the Act election to the Canada , some of between we had of the reserves regarding these same provisions , to know , in what legislation the information personal would - they protected and the procedures implemented in place would - they or not expertise ?
the government of the Canada and election Canada we have amorphous that this kind of things not could not if produce .
I am vehemence that the Leader and election Canada say now that election Canada is in considering of put in place of the procedures for prevent that these incidents not if occur .
must - he in d?duire that he not there had until to now no procedure or no system of control in place since the Adopted of the Act election ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not like not that my hon. colleague in hook a courtesy conclusion .
however , of the recommendations have been made order that of the measures additional ensure taken and colleague .
a number considerable of information are Message to election Canada and , fortunately , the kind of incident whose we talking today today is rare .
in fact , if he has drew our attention , this is exactly because that that if product very rarely .
these provisions have been renforc?es , Senate - in amorphous .
what that ensure the provisions taken , I not broaden not until to say that he not risk not in the future that the information be unwitting released .
you me assure however that these provisions are in seaway of be renforc?es and that situation incident not is more investigator of if replicating .
the Senator Andreychuk :
honourable senators , by following of this very serious offence , not appropriate - he not of put in place a Committee of monitoring , or a group of resolute , who veillerait to this that that not if occurring more ?
these assurance we have already been data in the past , and he seems that the you gave today today fact appeal to the Technology new for transfer these issues of manner rather rarity .
my confidence is ?branl?e because , on the plan legislative , particularly in Equity of protection of the life privacy , we wanted virtually all that the system works and we have coop?r? in this sense .
the time not is - he not goals to a review independent for we ensure that the procedures ensured are indeed in place ?
w ( 1450 )
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , in the case who we nat , the Manitoba has been almost immediately advised and informed of the process commencing .
I hear also that the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy has been constantly held to the aware , that he has given his endorse to the changes who have been accomplished , and that he was to all the least satisfy that all the means reasonable ensure now developed in implement for we ensure that a incident similar not if again not .
the fisheries and the Oceans
the provinces Maritimes - Position decision of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of fishing of the aboriginal - Changes funds 118.8 to the Purchase of licences for the aboriginal
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , the 4 November , I have asked to the Minister if he could provide of the details on the proposal revert to put of side 500 million of $ for fund the Purchase of licences for the fishermen aboriginal of the Canada Atlantic .
the Minister not has not could provide of details to this time - there .
as he if in recall , my question if reported to the decision Marshall of the Court Supreme .
the Minister is - he today today in legislation of we provide of more forth information ?
if he not the is not , could - he if contact to the Department councillors ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not am not in legislation of provide to the hon. Senator more of information today today that the day where he has raised the question .
I will certainly me enqu?rir to this about deposited of the Minister of the Fisheries .
the Senator Comeau :
honourable senators , the Minister should know that he not if is not of a question without importance to the Canada Atlantic , particularly in Nova - Nova , after the federalist of the agreed concluded between the fishermen and the aboriginal .
this federalist will clearly a great impact on the future of the communities coastal and the Minister should give a more great importance to the situation .
she has of the impact in all the Canada , particularly in the region that knows very well the Minister .
he should exercise a some pressure for resolve the question .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I putting that he if is of a question very important , who will be to the Prime plan of our concerns during a sure time .
he is vital that the Canadians understand that the solutions to this question very important must be of the solutions experienced involved and that funding , to the sense broad , all the Canadians and not not only the fishermen of the Nova - Nova and of the New - Brunswick .
Questions delayed to of the questions Oral
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have of the Questions delayed to the questions Oral of the hon. Senator Kinsella , of the hon. Senator Rivest and of the hon. Senator Bolduc , raised to the Term 16 November 99 , regarding the Service Canadian of the Intelligence of security , the loss of documents classifi?s and the review of the Committee of monitoring of the activities of the Intelligence of security .
I have also a response to the question who has been raised to the Senate the 18 November 99 by the hon. Senator Spivak and who captured the Agreement of free - Exchange North - American and a court intent?e by a society Processors in consequential of the loss of a contract of Purchase of water in vrac .
the Solicitor General
the Service Canadian of the Intelligence of security - Position loss of documents classifi?s - Conformity review of the Committee of monitoring of the activities of the Intelligence of security
( Questions to the questions raised by the honorablesNo?l A . Kinsella , Jean - Claude Rivest and Roch Bolducle 16 November 99 . )
( questions regarding the reviews and on the notification of the CSARS )
to payments of chairman of the Committee of monitoring of the activities of Intelligence of security , Late Paule Gauthier has said , during of interviews of press recent , that or the Solicitor General or the steering of the SCRS not are held of the prevent of such incidents .
the SCRS fear currently a inquiry of security Economy , and the Inspecteur General , who falls of the Solicitor General , fact also inquiry .
the CSARS has undertaken a review of his own initiative .
let the CSARS and the Inspecteur General do their work .
this are of the mechanisms of monitoring independent who have all the powers necessary for have access to the information of the SCRS , as the states a Act of the Parliament .
( questions on the comments of the Prime Minister )
the Prime Minister knows that three investigations are in during on this case , there including those that enjoyment the Committee of monitoring of the activities of Intelligence of security ( CSARS ) and the Inspecteur General for the SCRS .
the government is sure that these two mechanisms of surveillanceind?pendants , whose the existence is portion by a bill of Parliament , discuss unacc?s total to the information of the SCRS and expect well their work .
he is important of the let do their work .
( questions on the classify of the document and on the procedures of security )
because that he there has of the investigations and of the reviews in during , he would inappropriate of comment the nature exactly of the documents manquants or the procedures divesting the treatment of documents of this nature .
the steering of the SCRS has guaranteed that all the measures necessary are taken for ensure the bare respect of the political determined in Equity of security .
still a time , he must let the CSARS and the Inspecteur General of the SCRS continue their reviews independent .
( questions on the steering of the SCRS )
the government has confidence in the capabilities of the Directeur and , a time still , I incites to let the SCRS therefore that the mechanisms of monitoring of the outside that are the CSARS and the Inspecteur General continue their reviews .
the committees parliamentarians can invite all the witnesses that they corporate documentation .
the trade international
the Agreement of free - Exchange North - American - Conformity proceedings basically by a society Processors in consequential of the loss of a contract of Purchase of water in vrac - Position Position of the government
( response to the question raised by the hon. Mira Spivak the 18 November 99 . )
the case of the MMT not has not created of precedent for the response of the government in any other case fully of the chapter 11 of the NAFTA .
each case is considered individually , according his well - based .
the group Special established to the words of the Agreement on the trade within ( ACI ) has presented his report before that the other hardship judicial not in nonetheless to this step .
the group has concluded that the legislation regarding the MMT to the level of the trade Interprovincial was contrary to the objectives of the agreed .
for conform the bill to the decision of the group Special of the ACI , the Canada has withdrawn the MMT of the list of the products chemical Treaty by the ban regarding the trade Interprovincial and the importation .
that has also licences to the Canada of resolve to the secrecy with Ethyl Corporation .
the case of the MMT in the framework of the NAFTA not is not processes beyond - beyond of the arguments relating to the jurisdiction , and no sentence final not has been decided .
the society Sun Belt WaterInc. ( Sun Belt ) , of California , has presented the year last a to Notification of the intention of options a phase to the arbitrage to , in Conformity with the provisions of the chapter 11 of the NAFTA regarding the regulation of the differences between a prohibited and a state .
by two time , and all recently in November 99 , Sun Belt has sought to usually the procedure of arbitrage in market a Notice of arbitrage to the Canada .
however , the two documents in question not includes not to the requirements proc?durales of the chapter 11 of the NAFTA , and the Canada has , in consequential , informed Sun Belt that , to his notice , no procedure of arbitrage to the words duchapitre 11 not had been enclench?e .
our Position is that no procedure of arbitrage to the words of the chapter 11 not can begin before that Sun Belt not gave presented a Notice of arbitrage unfortunate .
in the documents introduced to this day , Sun Belt claims that the British - British has took , between 1989 and now , various to measures to contrary to the provisions of the chapter 11 of the NAFTA , there including the Building , in 1989 , of licences of export of water in vrac , and the conduct of the prosecutor General to the regard of the action in justice to rely of January 1993 . Changes allegations of offences avid by the Canada to the regard of the NAFTA improve the sections 1102 ( Traitement national ) , 1105 ( Norme of treatment minimum ) and 1110 ( Expropriation and compensation ) .
the moratorium and the regulation adopted in 1991 by the British - British prevented the exports of water in vrac are doctors under the argument that they are contrary to the right international , but no reference direct not is made to of the offences to the provisions of the NAFTA .
the Canada means constantly increase the transparency in the procedures Impediment to the regulation of the differences between a prohibited and a state .
in the legislation of the possible , he encourage the openness in these procedures and request to the requ?rant of do of even .
the Canada is determined to appeal drew the phase introduced against him by the Sun Belt to the words of the chapter 11 of the NAFTA , if this phase is Before to the arbitrage according the rules .
in the case DESONA , a court set in under of the chapter 11 of the NAFTA has recently realized a judgment fully to the advantage of the Mexico , in concluant that extend - side not had , in the actions , legalistic no of his obligations to the words of this chapter .
this is the first time that a court set in under of the chapter 11 of the NAFTA for hear a case involving a prohibited and a state makes a sentence final .
in his findings , the court has set of the limits clear further to the difference of the obligations duchapitre 11 regarding the Investment who had been raised in this case .
the sentence shows that these obligations not are not extensibles , and that their scope is limited .
the ORDRE OF orders
the speech of the Throne
motion of directed in response - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Vodrey , seconded by the hon. Senator Furey , seconded to the Adopted of a Adresse to His Excellency the Gouverneure general in response to the speech that contemporaries has sir during of the openness of the second session of the 30 - sixth Parliament . - (
5e day of the resuming of the debate ) .
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , he there a80 years approximately , in the turn of the Paix , this wonderful symbol of the peace who authority a comforting world to the Parliament of the Canada , you has recorded the words following , got of the Proverbes : to Faute of vision , the people lives without preferment ; happy who follows the bill . to
to the time where we we pr?parons to enter in a new century and a new millennium , we should reflect intens?ment to this proverbe of the Saintes scriptures .
what is our vision ?
that envisageons - we for the Canada : a country of abondance , fact of great espaces , of industries and of resources , of progress technological and of huge energies human ?
how envisageons - we the Canada by report to the rest of the world , in this period crucial of the history of the world , where the human have the power of contribute the security to the humanity , on the planet of God ?
the arrived of a new century request of centrer our attention not only on we - same in our country draft , but also on the village overall realized possible by the prodiges of the Technology .
when we regardons the world in his together , we should be surprised and shame of see the huge suffering tol?r?es by the systems political of the world .
the 20 century has been the more sanglant of the history of the humanity , then that more of 110 million of persons have been driving during of the war , this who represents three time more that all the Late occurred to the War since the all Prime century after Jesus - Christ .
during that of the war are intimate and breakfast therefore of major amount of resources , the more terror of our world grab their situation if eroded still more .
sixty country if poorer regularly since 1980 .
the services of housing , of health and of education doing cruelly defaults in the world around .
w ( 1500 )
even if we , to the Canada , are incredibly penchant in service of the standards international , this not is not a reason for be Commission or murmur of we .
to the during of the ten past years , the number of poor to the Canada is past of 3,7 million of persons to more of 5 million , this who represents 18 per of the population .
more of 1.5 million of children , a child on five therefore , live in the poverty .
the problem of the without - homeless has been qualified of disaster national by the mayors of the ten more major cities of the country .
in all the Canada , the governments consistently in the funding Use to the programs social , to the health and to the education .
the governments r?duisent their deficits to the backs of the poor .
in the years 90 , the appropriation spent to the Program of assistance public to the development of the Canada have been reduced de37p. per , and yet , to the hour current , our Estimates military not are pushed that of 19p. per to our Estimates during the damaging years of the War Cold .
the Canada has d?pens?690 million of $ for participate to the War of the Gulf et18 million of $ for the bombs largu?es on the Kosovo and the Serbie to the spring last .
to the Canada as to the abroad , we do opposite to of the disparit?s choquantes and to of bad priorities .
in a world of abondance , the justice social seems more insufficient that never .
we missions to of the war who not should not have held .
the major showdown persons of the weapons nuclear who sells constantly in danger the humanity .
the governments of the planet funding a militarisme excessive to the backs of the poor .
short , the priorities of the government in Equity of Estimates military are follement Maximizing by report to those who originated the Estimates aside to the development economic and social to a then where the lack of development is now recognized as met the more great threat that can know on the plan of the security the States the least d?velopp?s .
this is a situation of two negative , two measures to the risen immense in the framework of which the governments argue of a side that they are unable of fund the needs social in reason of the deficits and disquieting of the other of the are huge to the War and to his preparation .
the year even who has followed the summit of the child in 1990 , who if is achieved by of the speech and little of money , the government has suddenly found 60 billion of $ for participate to the War of the Gulf .
the industry of the weapons is if puissante and his influence is if envahissante that similar - side affecte almost all the aspects of the society Western .
the country Nations gross double 483 billion of $ to the Defence , but only 48 billion of $ to the assistance public to the development , who is supposed answer to the needs of security human of the regions the more d?stabilis?es in the world .
even this small amount of assistance is left in question , but the appropriation military franchissent the process Government without be doctors .
the reality , this is that a development economic sustainable could do let good number of the tensions pre to the War .
this is there the lesson that we should learn desann?es 90 .
he can arrive that the employment of the force be legitimate in the soon of the peace ; however , if the you not redonne not to the Council of security his role pr??minent as only source of legitimacy regarding the Order to the force , the Alexander short turnarounds toward the anarchie .
you not can let the NATO determine she - even to what time he there will Order to the force ; yet , to the opportunity of the summit grand the celebrations anniversary of the NATO , who if is defenders little after the beginning of the bombing to the Kosovo , the participants have took deliberately the decision of if wants the role of arbitre responsible of decide of the time timely of use the force .
the gloatingly excessive of the NATO heritage now the inequality and the confidence .
the Russes and the Chinese not approached never a Alexander domin? by the NATO .
already , the consequences of the War of the Kosovo have beyond of far the cost human .
the hopes that the you orchids for a system of security World if are fracass?s against the ?cueils of the power .
the confidence suscit?e by this that you believer be the end of the War Cold is today today unconscionable .
a new won to the armements nuclear is to fear if Washington , Moscow and Beijing not cases not to cooperate of new .
the world if heads all right toward the gulf nuclear , perfectly peel by the India and the Pakistan .
the danger that arise the weapons nuclear will grew .
this finding should hire the people of good showing to the within of the government and of the society civil to act .
the Canada not can more if exempt of a action d?cisive in if abstenant of vote to the Nations Nations , as during of the resolution introduced this year in the framework of the new program and Requesting to the showdown nuclear of if Services without definitive to enter of the negotiations Work to the Elimination of the weapons nuclear .
that he if abhorrent of the weapons nuclear or of the War of the Kosovo , this who is in because , this is the rule of the right .
how the right international will he imposed in the years to come ?
the will he by a Oath military who wants of this that should be the right or by a effort collective world who implementation on the respect of the rule of the right in the framework of the Nations Nations ?
hence the question fundamental who if valid to the Canada to the enter of the new millennium .
honourable senators , even if the picture that I just of tracer is sadness , this is with hope that I like do opposite to the new millennium .
my hope ahead in the better understanding that we have in as that community human of a world interreli? in each unequivocal of activity .
despite the war , the hunger , the number of without - homeless and the diseases who touch of the million of beings human , the world advance however toward a new manner of lead the Affairs international , who demands a more great participation of all and who is more represents on the persons .
this movement can create the conditions supportive to a culture of the peace .
you said often that the War is inexorable , that she fact part of the nature human and that the human if battent since always .
this analysis is lift .
the beings human not are not g?n?tiquement programm?s for do the War .
he not there has no part Diversity inherent to our nature who product the violence .
the UNESCO fact pointed that the War starts in the head ; of even , he we must do enter in our spirit the new concept according which the peace is absolutely necessary in a era technologique of destruction mass .
for review the pessimisme present , he must recognize that the War not is not inexorable .
the violence such that you the has view in Iraq , in Bosnia , to the catalogued , in Somalia , to the Kosovo and elsewhere not ?merge not inexorably of the interaction human .
as the haine and the incitation to the violence Landry by the in?galit?s Social and economic , and 7.54 to a System easy in weapons Tragedy , are if evident , he is essential and pressing of discover how prevent that of the differences not escalate in conflict overwhelmingly violent .
the real problem here not is not that we know all of the violence tender and of dispute , but rather that we know how act .
be that we not justified no attention to the tueries who if produced in the regions who not are not to the centre of our interests , or then , as in the situation to the Kosovo , we d?cha?nons a newest of destruction under argument of save the humanity .
the examples of the points chauds in the world indicate that the potential of violence can be dissemination by the application h?tive , habile and int?gr?e of measures political , diplomatic , economic and military .
even if of terrible suffering are Denmark , you not can deny that the parties in War have falling the weapons to the Salvador , in Namibia , to the Mozambique , in Africa of the South , to the Guatemala and to the pomp .
the agreements of peace in Ireland of the North and to the Middle - East , even if they are pr?caires , testimony that the desire of peace of the man can come to across of the stories of conflict .
since 1945 , the UN has rigorous 172 regulations diplomatic who have developed a term to of the conflict regional , there including the end of the War between the Iran and the Iraq and the withdrawal of the troops encroachment in Afghanistan .
the War and the violence are generally the consequential of decisions political d?lib?r?es .
rather that of expect that of the conflict shifted stay for speak and of seek then to betterment the peace , he is more human and more effective of prevent the violence in if attaquant to his causes first .
this is the emphasis of a approach for a culture of the peace .
the efforts fuelled of the UNESCO in view of promote a culture of the peace are inspirants .
in response to a request who him had been submitted by the Assembly general of the Nations Nations order that she tender the idea of a culture of the peace as approach in view of prevent the violence and the conflict armed , the UNESCO has defined the standards , the values and the objectives designed to promote a culture of the peace .
w ( 1510 )
a spirit of peace , this is a together of values , of attitudes , of traditions , of behaviours and of modes of life who reflect and analysis the respect of the life and of the rights of the human .
this is reject the violence under all his forms and this is if Services to prevent the conflict violent in if attaquant to their causes first by the seaway of the dialogue and of the negotiating .
you not acquiert not a spirit of peace of the day to the next .
to the held of planned the way of delivering the War , the Canada should support of all his negative the efforts of the Secretary General of the Nations Nations , Kofi Annan , who has underlined recently in these words the need of promote a culture of the peace :
he seems sometimes that the culture of the peace not has no fortunate before the culture of the War , the culture of the violence , and the culture of the impunit? and of the intolerance .
the peace represents can - be a challenge of size ; she is can - be also linked of the actions conduites in of many areas and without doubt , to the opportunity , of a small suddenly of acre of the fortunate .
the process can if offsetting to the time long and painful , to the time fragile and imparfait a time realized .
honourable senators , these ideas have been address with force to the conference in favour of the peace hosted to Position Hague in May last ; this event of four days has r?uni7 100,000 persons of per nationalit?s different attack attend to of the s?minaires and of the concerts , see of the expositions and participate to a myriad of activities in favour of the peace .
for if defray of a culture of the peace , the Canada must develop of the political who exceptions the security of the human , the implementation in place of new coalitions and the court of new talks , who trap the rule of the right , who privil?gient the initiatives of peace , the taken of decisions democratic , and the interventions humanitarian allowable by the Council of security .
he agreeable finally of amend the political in force in under prompted of the billion of $ are spent to the Sudan and to the militarisation , then that , fault of financements , are sacrifi?es of laudable initiatives in favour of the development and of the actions all also laudable in favour of the peace and of the security .
honourable senators , the culture of the peace is a objective achievable , certainly , but he is also incontournable .
in the absence of a culture of the peace , of the million and of the million of human continuously of p?rir .
the Canada can - he purposeful in favour of the rule of the Nations Nations in Equity of resolution of the conflict ?
I think that we the can and that this is even our duty of the do .
the Canada can - he if associate with of the States to the views similar for convince the country pool of a ability nuclear of if Services in of the negotiations designed to eliminate this Sudan ?
I think that we the can and that this is even our duty of the do .
the mandate Prime of the Nations Nations - save to the generations to come the affres of the War - should Establishing a of the concerns fundamental of the government of the Canada .
the perspective of a culture of the peace can we give a force renewed in this next millennium .
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , the Senator Roche agree - he of answer to a question ?
the Senator Roche :
certainly .
the Senator Grafstein :
the Senator Roche and me have already discussed of this question .
however , I love always hear this that he has to say , particularly in this who respect the role of the Nations Nations .
the Secretary General has recently blamed the Nations Nations for their failure to Srebrenica .
of other observers have said the even something , be that the Nations Nations had avoidability to the task seen the events Own to Srebrenica .
I you the remind briefly : the Nations Nations have established to Srebrenica a found where the people altering be in security , but of innocence victims if enfuyant for if r?fugier under the flag white of the Nations Nations there have been massacr?es .
the Secretary General Kofi Annan has said that this failure was output to the Nations Nations .
how r?concilier the opinion of the hon. Senator , who seen the Nations Nations as a body overall , protector and pacificateur , with the reality of this body who , opportunity before the difficulty , if find d?poss?d? , impuissant and without Order ?
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
hon. Senator Roche , I regret of duty you interrupt , but I must you remind that the time who you was Allocation is expired .
asking - you the leave of continue ?
the Senator Roche :
yes , I request the leave of continue .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed
the Senator Roche :
I you thank , honourable senators .
the Senator Grafstein has criticized reducing the Nations Nations .
I hope that he not me in cite not of say that the description not was not complete .
I not have never said that the Nations Nations were a institution perfect , not more that I hustings the government of the Canada of institution perfect .
however , he agreeable certainly of support of the political who improve to establish of the conditions propices to the peace , and this is exactly this that try of do the Nations Nations .
I donnerai a only example .
the government of the Canada has seconded the training of a force police permanent who would mobilis?e in case of conflict for save of the lives .
to because of the Opposition of the major showdown , the Nations Nations not have not still agreed or developed in implement a such force police .
to the eve of the next century , we should restore the rule of the Nations Nations and not not allow to of the associations regional , even if this are of important associations as the NATO , of if replace to the authority of the Nations Nations to payments of Main officer legal of peace and of security in the world .
hence what should be our point of mire .
( on the motion of the Senator Atkins , the debate is adjourned . )
privileges , Rules and procedure
Adopted of the second report of the Committee
the Senate proceeded to the study of the second report of the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure ( church morave of America ) , presented to the Term 24 November 99 . - ( Conformity hon. Senator Austin , C ) .
the hon. Jack Austin :
honourable senators , I move the Adopted of the report .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
third report of the Committee - Stands of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
study of the third report of the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure ( question of privilege of the Senator Kinsella ) , tabled to the Term 24 November 99 . - ( Conformity hon. Senator Austin , C ) .
the hon. Jack Austin :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , I like give a brief explanation and not propose the Adopted of the report to this point - side .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Austin :
honourable senators , I have of the concerns further to the Availability of evidence corroborantes and expertise regarding the question .
this last can however be resolved if the witnesses are loans to testify in sitting public rather that to camera closed .
I recueille of the notice to this regard and , rather that of hold a discussion designed to determine when you must approach to the sittings to camera closed , I prefer that the section to the study be order to tomorrow .
w ( rald )
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I like that in struck of other information , the chairman of the Committee du account of the fact that good number of between we are of notice that in rule general , all the deliberations of the Parliament of the Canada should be public .
we recognize that he there has , of time to other , some questions who must be treated to camera closed .
the study by a Committee of a array of report in is a example .
by therefore , I urge the Committee to driver his deliberations publicly and not not to camera closed .
in the legislation where this question of privilege particular intended the circumstances surrounding the Adopted of means of pressure to the work , I wish to remind to the chairman and to the members of the Committee who could have of the doubts to this about that , in under of the right of the work , the questions of arbitrage not are not debatable to camera closed , but publicly .
finally , in the legislation where this is me who have raised the question of privilege and where the Committee means that I involved to his business , I must say that I chair well of the difficulty to appear to camera closed before the Committee .
this is a principle on which I me based for operate .
I urge the Committee to take all these aspects in consideration .
the Senator Austin :
honourable senators , I acknowledge the validity of the principles that the Senator Kinsella just of mention .
I think that this is to the chairman of the Committee that he responsibility of shown to the Senate why he would timely of hold a sitting to camera closed .
these reasons can if apply or not in the actions .
( the Senate if adjourned to the Wednesday 1 December 99 , to 13 p.m. 30 . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 14
the Wednesday 1 er December 99
the hon. Rose - Marie Losier - Losier , Speaker pro tempore
table of the Contents
' ' '
the Day World of the AIDS
the Francophonie
the inspecteur Robert Upshaw of the RCMP
tributes to the opportunity of his promotion
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
branch Canadian of the church morave of America
bill of bill of interest private amend the Act establish in human moral - Presented of a petition
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
notice of motion Authorize the Committee of the Finance national to study the Estimates of the Estimates
Finance national
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to allow the Electronic of his deliberations by of the means electronic
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to Services of the staff
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Affairs foreign
the d?passement of the Estimates of capital ensuing for some celebrating of the Canada
the development of the resources human
the level adequate of the provision of the fund of the insurance - employment
the Council of the Treasury
the report of the Auditor General - Conformity Helicopter of markets to a provider single - Conformity institution of a mechanism of review required of the markets
the Finance
the report of the Auditor General - Changes problems related to a under - estimate of the surplus budget
the Defence national
the report of the Auditor General - Position implementation in implement of the Program of Ethics of the Defence
the heritage
the behind in the construction of the new Museum of the War - Position protection of the tr?sors national
the new Museum of the War - Position nature of the funding private
the business of the Senate
response research to a question orale
the justice
the possible of protect more the people against the violence
Order OF orders
the Act of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
second Reading
referred to the Committee
the Act on the Assent Royal
second Reading - Motion of amendment - Point to the regulation - Adjourned of the debate in the Awaiting of the decision of the Speaker
motion of amendment
Order to the Rules
Affairs legal and Constitutional
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
Banking and trade
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
energy , environment and resources natural
motion designed to Authorize the Committee to examine the Act Canadian on the protection of the environment - Adjourned of the debate
the business of the Senate
Order to the Rules
energy , environment and resources natural
Authorized to the Committee of study of the questions related to his mandate
Authorized to the Committee of Services of the staff and of if adjourn - Adjourned of the debate
Authorized to the Committee of allow the Electronic of his deliberations by the media electronic
the SENATE
the Wednesday 1 December 99
the sitting is met to 13 p.m. 30 , the Speaker pro tempore met to the Chair .
prayers .
the Day World of the AIDS
the hon. Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators , I rise the speak today today for highlight the Day World of the AIDS .
to the least 109 country recognize this day , which draw the attention on a illness who affecte of the people in the world around .
the Day World of the AIDS intended to awareness more the world to this terrible illness and to hear of the funds additional in view of there put end .
he there has already nice lurette that the AIDS not is more assimil? to a illness of suit .
this illness contagieuse mortelle if attack to all the walks Social , without hold account of the race , of the pardon or of the situation social or economic .
ONUSIDA , the body of the Nations Nations responsible of study the illness and of retarded the spread of the virus , has recently released a report reaps the terrible threat that this outbreak fact weigh on the world around .
someone 5,6 million of persons will infected this year only , this who ups to 33,6 million the number of beings human achieved of this illness .
his impact having increased of 10 per by report to the year last , the AIDS continues of if r?pandre as a gun of brousse .
the spread of the HIV properly to the use of drugs injectables is become a problem pressing .
he is great time that the Canada adopt a approach in this who respect the health public , as the have fact already the Britain - Britain , the Netherlands - Lower , the Australia and the Switzerland , who overwhelmingly to the toxicomanes the access to various models of treatment , without if limit to the promotion of the forbearance , but all in rolls the assistance financial remitted to the centres of treatment .
the twelfth Day World Annual of the AIDS if directed to the young of the world around .
the theme of this year is to Changes children and the young :
listen , learn , live to .
this is all to fact timely met given that , according the report of the UN , the most of the victims of the AIDS contractent the virus before of have reached the age of 25 years and milking before of celebrate their 30 - fifth anniversary .
you believes that the information deposited of the young is the approach the more facility who be for reduce the spread of the virus of the HIV .
today today , 20 years after that the first outbreak gave struck , ONUSIDA believe that the worse rest to come to least of a recommendations of the efforts in view of eradicating this illness .
to the enter of the new millennium , we must focus our efforts on the education , the prevention , the improvement of the care of health and finally , hope - the , the treatment .
for arrive to put a term to this terrible outbreak , we must start a appeal to the leaders of the country of the world around order that they conjuguent their efforts .
this not is that in working together that we can hope come to across of this illness .
the Francophonie
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , the Francophonie if is executing clear for the protection of the diversity cultural .
r?unie to Paris the 30 November 99 , the Conference brief French , Pritchard by the hon. Ronald Duhamel , Secretary of state Canadian to the Francophonie , has r?affirm? the principle already statement during of the Summit of Moncton , to know that :
the property Cultural not must in no way be r?ductibles to their only dimension economic and Shipping and that the States and governments have the right of establish freely their policy cultural .
the Secretary General of the Organization international of the francophone , Mr. Boutros Boutros - summit , has said of his side that the country francophones not could not accept of the to rules who could fall the identit?s national to .
the Francophonie international is of many more surprisingly to the principle basic of the diversity cultural and to the plurilinguisme that they constitute his basic philosophique and his reason of be .
as you the know , honourable senators , in the report on the policy foreign of the Canada entitled : to Principes and priorities for the future to , tabled he there has five years already , the Committee of the House and of the Senate had , to this then , clear established , to the chapter 6 of this report , and I quote :
the Committee recognizes strongly that the policy foreign of the Canada dealing the Affairs cultural , scientific and ?ducationnelles must do part integral of a policy national , RFP of together with the provinces .
each country has a identity cultural who him is own , and this unicit? deserves a treatment particular .
the Canada must reaffirm his Position order of nouer of the alliances for do recognize the need of protect and of promote the crops national .
[ more later [
the inspecteur Robert Upshaw of the RCMP
tributes to the opportunity of his promotion
leave having been granted of return to the statements of senators :
the hon. Calvin Woodrow Ruck :
he seems that this be the Prime Noir to achieve a rank also high in the RCMP .
we are extremely proud of our brother Robert Upshaw and we him wish the better of the opportunity in the court of his work , because he discriminates a influence on the young who bilious to of such roles who consistent to serve the tradition hon. of the Mounted Royal of the Canada .
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
branch Canadian of the church morave of America
bill of bill of interest private amend the Act establish in human moral - Presented of a petition
the hon. Nicholas W . Taylor :
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
notice of motion Authorize the Committee of the Finance national to study the Estimates of the Estimates
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I give notice that Thursday next , the 2 December 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national be authorized to study , order of in do report , the Estimates set in the Estimates of the Estimates for the fiscal financial if ending the 31 March 2000 ; and
that the Committee presented his report to the more later 31 March 2000 .
Finance national
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to allow the Electronic of his deliberations by of the means electronic
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I give notice that Thursday next , the 2 December 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national be authorized to allow the meaning of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to Services of the staff
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I give notice that Thursday next , the 2 December 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national be authorized to clerical the services of counsel legal , of staff technical , of employees of office and of other persons to the need , for help the Committee to examine the bills of bill , the substance of these last and the forecasts who him have been An .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Affairs foreign
the d?passement of the Estimates of capital ensuing for some celebrating of the Canada
the hon. Terry Stratton :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate and respect the question that I have raised the week last to the about of the Department of the Affairs foreign , who would beyond fun per the appropriation original planned in the budget Main of the Estimates .
the forecasts if are high now ?130 million of $ for the business of construction , dont70 million for the construction of our Embassy in Germany in reason of the transfer of the capital allemande of Bonn to Berlin .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
this is shame !
the Senator Stratton :
these questions have been raised before the Committee of the Finance to the time where he if looked on the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates .
I have asked to the door - speak of the Council of the Treasury of justify this d?passement of 50 per of the costs and of me give of the figures iterations .
they have promised of obtain the information and the Leader of the government to the Senate has fact of even .
I must recognize that the Senator Hays has always answered enough quickly to our questions .
I poured that he can rely on a force more important , because the Senator Carstairs there doctor more long .
a Senators :
he just of the Alberta .
the Senator Stratton :
a Albertan would - he more effective that a Manitobain ?
I not the believe not !
two questions have been raised , the a to the meeting of the Committee of the Finance and the other to the Senate , the week last .
they are relatively simple .
I have ran by find the response to according 5 of the daily The Ottawa Citizen of this morning .
the Leader of the government to the Senate should can - be me ask the Questions to these questions .
I could him say that to Seoul , in Korea , he there has a d?passement of 22 million of $ .
of more , this d?passement could have resulted the cancellation of the bill .
the Department has bought a ground for 15 million of $ he there has five years .
this ground is vacant .
if you using the method of calculating of the interests on the cost of abdication ages million of $ on five years , you otherwise a cost of abdication of 8 million of $ on these 15 million of $ .
he there has then the residence to New Delhi , in India , who has cost 200 100,000 $ of more that expected .
the Senator Di Nino :
that represents many of money in India .
the Senator Stratton :
that is - this who if proceeded to the Department of the Affairs foreign for that he not can not control the costs ?
I can understand that you know all of the body of loosely in the sector local of the b?timent in a country given , but that not has nothing of new to the Department of the Affairs foreign .
he fact this kind of something since of the years .
he can certainly have a better control on the costs that to the hour current , where the costs d?passent fun per the estimates robust .
this is all to fact absurd that we news a bill to Seoul with a d?passement of 22 million of $ and that you the denies of sort that the ground rest vacant .
the Leader of the government cite can - be answer .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank the hon. Senator of his comments .
the Senator homme man :
r?pondez to the speech , I you please .
the Senator Boudreau :
in a some legislation , I sharing the frustration of the Senator to the regard of the fact that the Leader Deputy of the government not has not answered more quickly to this question in particular .
however , I acknowledge also that in General , he meets quickly and I the in thank .
in this who respect the problems precise that the hon. Senator raises , he is obvious that we attempting of obtain the more possible for our money in the case of all the bills of construction , in we fiant on the resources local of the country .
to in judge by the information that the hon. Senator has admit with we , these resources local have been someone little impr?visibles during the enforcement of these bills .
I date of obtain of the information more precise for answer to the concerns of the Senator .
the Senator has mentioned the case precise of the ground left vacant .
you not can that hope that this ground newest gave tripl? of value since , this who we step of not not suffer of cost of abdication and can - be even of enable a gain .
the Senator Stratton :
I believe that the Senate and the Canadians deserve of best explanation .
these d?passements of cost are bashful .
how r?glerez - you this problem ?
how emp?cherez - you that that if occurring to the future ?
the Senator Boudreau :
the Senator has raised a point important .
I have said that I forward to the Senator the r?assurance of the Minister that he there would a review of these problems and that , he must the hope , of the measures would taken order of avoid that that if occurring .
the development of the resources human
the level adequate of the provision of the fund of the insurance - employment
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , imitant in that the Senator Stratton , I like me also add a preamble to my question .
in his report of the 19 November 99 , the Auditor General talking of the surplus of the fund of the insurance - employment .
the rate of premium to the insurance - employment are exclusions by the Commission of insurance - employment , who covers of the representatives of the employees , of the employers and of the government , and they must be approved by the cabinet , on the recommendation of the Minister of the Finance and of the Minister of the Development of the resources human .
these rate should allow of cover the costs of the program all in sitting relatively stable regardless of the graduate economic .
he is normal that the you pr?voie a level adequate of the provision , but the bill not give no precision on this who step a level adequate .
in a letter sent to the Minister of the Development of the resources human in July last , the Auditor General has underlined that the surplus of the fund of the insurance - employment exceeds now the level of the 10 to 15 billion of $ that the actuary of the fund Justice sufficient for satisfy to the requirements of the bill .
the Auditor General has said follows to the Minister , met given that the surplus d?passait the level felt sufficient by the actuary :
account held of the state present of the surplus , he there has held of negotiates and of clarify the factors screening to determine the level adequate of the provision .
in the response that he give to the Auditor General , the government if spend simply of clarify the process screening to establish the rate and not give not following to the suggestion specific him enjoignant of negotiates the factors screening to determine the level adequate of the provision .
honourable senators , to the end of March , the surplus of the fund of the insurance - employment will higher to 26 billion of $ .
to a time given to the during of the next year financial , he forecast the 30 billion of $ .
the case afforded , what is this amount and how is - he established ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , as you the know , he there has a very generous surplus in the fund of the insurance - employment .
to comments , the generous surplus is the result of a healthy economy , of a economy as similar that we know in the time .
a of the consequences of a economy blossoming , this is that the needs faced must answer the regime of insurance - employment are least sacrificed that they not the would in of other circumstances , and we we r?jouissons all of this situation .
by following of this growth , the premiums of insurance - employment have been reduced of way substantially to the during of the past years .
I not have not the figures in labour , but I can easily the obtain and you the communicate and I am satisfied that the hon. Senator knows that he there has had a reduction phased .
some argue that this reduction phased not is not intervened enough quickly or that she would should if continue .
the Commission of the insurance - employment , who establishes the rate , has adopted a point of view someone little different .
to my notice , she if shows prudent .
however , we should recognize that the government and the economy have the deserves of we have developed in presence of this interesting challenge .
the Senator Oliver :
can - be the hon. Minister has he devanc? the Minister of the Finance and we has he given of the forecasts economic ?
however , my question dealt specifically on the provision of the fund .
if she if 12 now to 26 billion of $ and that she happens to the during of the next year financial ?30 billion of $ , when the amount will he enough high ?
what would according the Minister a provision expeditiously ?
when the employers can - they if expect to benefit of a relief ?
the Senator Di Nino :
a relief real ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the employers can if expect to of the Low real , as to the during of the past years .
to the throughout and to legislation that the programs have given the results expected , of the Low have been accorded by the government federal .
to how must if rise the provision ?
I not can give a response exactly to the question of the Senator .
that depends of the state of the economy to a time precise .
of other factors can enter in line of account .
what that he in be , he worth better continuation by excesses of prudence .
I not can give of opinion personal on the levels done of the provision .
I believe not not me wrong in saying that if the surplus continues to increase , he if could strong well the government contemplated of other cuts .
the Council of the Treasury
the report of the Auditor General - Conformity Helicopter of markets to a provider single - Conformity institution of a mechanism of review required of the markets
the hon. Marjory LeBreton :
honourable senators , in his report of November 99 , more specifically chapter 30 entitled : to Changes markets of services professionals conclude with a provider single to , the Auditor General if is focused on the practice agreed by the government of wants of the markets of services professionals to a provider single .
according this practice , the government crunch of the contracts without approach to the competition , and this to the profit of a provider single .
the Auditor General if is also focused on a mechanism called the to notice of Life of contract to , or PAC .
honourable senators , the contracts are supposed be register by seaway competitive , gold you proceeded addition to the rules for choose a provider given .
as the quoted the Auditor General :
... the most of the markets that we have audited this year not r?sisteraient not to the review public .
the figures are distrust .
according the Auditor General , almost of 90 per of the markets having fact the subject of a audit have been accorded in despite of the regulations .
honourable senators , the contracts of 25 100,000 $ and more regarding of the markets to provider single represent approximativement 1,34 billion of $ of the Estimates of the government .
gold the services supplied not are absolutely not age .
of more , the amount of work proposed by the provider is rarely substantive of manner criticism , and the rules regarding the coupled of the PAC not are not properly observed .
in addition , only a small number of these markets destiny to the rules highlight the Order to a provider single .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , we peers all that , in the circumstances usual , the Helicopter of a contract to a provider single not is not the better way of proceed .
however , he can there have of the circumstances - and the hon. Senator the knows surely - where this is appropriate .
in this case - side , the Auditor General has given his opinion on some contracts .
to the term of a review enough detailed of these contracts , he has felt that the lines guidelines not were not always observed .
I am course that the Minister in question will good reaction to the comments urgently of the Auditor General , and I projection that he in incorporated account and Glenney in consequential .
the Senator LeBreton :
honourable senators , when he is question of 1.3 billion of $ or of 90 per , you can instalments speak of to approximativement to .
this word has therefore a new latitude .
honourable senators , still a time , the Auditor General has said :
expand the cast of the exception or not not in hold account represents a decision Charges , of the share of some officials , of amend the balance of the values that the government has established for orienter the conduct of his Affairs .
I me deregulation of remind , honourable senators , that , even if in the book Red of 1993 the Liberal had promised of reduce the Estimates 408 to the services professionals and special , the government has increased substantially the Order to the under - traitance .
in fact , to the during of the Honouring This Hour Has22 Minutes of the week last , you has said that the book Red would should win the National of the Governor General of the category of the exclusivity of imagination .
trying he of preserve his power and his influence deposited of those who benefit of the contracts to provider single ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , in this who respect the book Red , the government will felt by the Canadians in time timely .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
you there received .
the Senator Boudreau :
he if can that I there respectful .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
not , you there received and , hon. Senator , you souhaiterez be here .
we basis there we also .
the Senator Graham :
there received - you ?
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
I there happy .
Halifax - Centre .
the Senator Boudreau :
we have more of candidates , if I understand well .
this is a example that I not am not sure of recommend .
for in return to the question , I believe that the Canadians jugeront the government on his performances general had regard to the book Red .
I not think not that he there someone excuse that this be to the government for give of the contracts who not would not in the interest of the Canadians .
the Minister will clearly take to the seriously the comments of the Auditor General .
the Senator LeBreton :
if the contracts are accorded in the interest of the public , he not there has no reason for that we not find nothing know to their about .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the hon. Senator has expressed clear his concerns .
all the governments recognize that , in some case , of the contracts must be accorded words that by the system of purchased normal .
the Finance
the report of the Auditor General - Changes problems related to a under - estimate of the surplus budget
the hon. Roch Bolduc :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the Auditor General has underlined a deficiency in the policy of the government , who sphere to do of the assumptions too prudentes by report to the growth economic and to the rate of interest .
he declare that this method was useful to the then of the deficits because she Pedro to the markets financial that all was under control , but that , in period of surpluses , she brings the government to spending more toward the end of the fiscal financial .
according the Auditor General , since , if the you fact of the forecasts prudentes , the surplus real will probably higher to the surplus expected :
to the time where that becomes obvious , toward the end of the fiscal , he is generally too later for influer on the results in reducing the taxes and the taxes , this who fact that the increase of the Estimates becomes the average the more effective of eliminate a surplus to excessive to .
each of the two last Budgets contained of new Estimates important who have been imput?es to the fiscal where the budget has been tabled .
honourable senators , the Auditor General said then that to that differs very little of the Estimates of end of fiscal Conducted by the departments who lags of funds exceed , except that he if is not more of million , but of billion of $ who stem of the spend of the taxpayers to .
not is - he not time that the government r?vise this practice who introducing to Services of the Estimates challenges in end of fiscal simply for amend the importance of the surplus or of the deficit said ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have read some of the comments that the Senator refers .
the Auditor General if concern of the fact that the government under - believe the surplus for a reason or a other .
you can him give all the grounds that the you means .
in highest these remarks , I me amazed of see to what point the time have changed .
I me recall very well of the then where the Auditor General critiquait the government year after year because that he had surestim? the revenues , amplifi? exag?r?ment the data , seriously under - esteemed the deficits and , by therefore , You the people essentially .
this is this that teamwork some levels of governments , and this was a practice dangerous .
of the point of view of the accounting or of the management , this is can - be a mistake that of be too prudent when you provides the surpluses .
in this case , this is a mistake who is of far preferable to the other exhaustion , that you has seen during if long in this country .
the Senator Bolduc :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government using the even through that his colleague , the Minister of the Finance .
of any obviously , the surplus budget of this year will higher to extend announced in February 99 . At held of keep these funds , why the government not drop he not the taxes all of following , knowing that he there will a surplus ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , of the projections have been made by various organizations and institutions sincerely in our country regarding the performance of our economy for a period of several years and the surpluses probable for this even period .
in General , you provides of the surpluses for the five next years .
I am of agreed with the Minister of the Finance present for say that , even if of such projections are useful to some purposes of planning , the period should be many more short for the budg?tisation and the planning of the programs Government .
of way realistic , a period of two years is to little almost the period maximale with which you can work for the budg?tisation and the planning of the programs .
I acknowledge however that , if we are too cautiously and if the surplus is more important that expected , he not could can - be not be used immediately .
the Defence national
the report of the Auditor General - Position implementation in implement of the Program of Ethics of the Defence
the hon. Michael A . Meighen :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
in his campaign in favour of the bill of bill C - 25 , who creating to amend the Act on the Defence national , to the spring of 1998 , the government has said to the Canadians that all the recommendations related to the inquiry on the events of Somalia had been implemented in implement .
yet , in the part of his report Authorize on the Defence national , the Auditor General points of first that the Program of Ethics of the Defence not has not still been fully developed in implement .
this program was the cornerstone cornerstone of the recommendations related to the inquiry on the events of Somalia .
the Leader of the government word he that the recommendations related to this inquiry not have not still been fully implemented in implement , and can - he we say when we can we expect to this that they the ensure ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Minister and the Department working to the What of the program that the Senator has mentioned .
the criticism of the Auditor General was rather that this program not operated not as he should operate according him .
this is a observation useful that the Minister takes certainly to the seriously in his efforts in view of complete the implementation in implement of this program .
the Senator Meighen :
honourable senators , I am anxious of see soon released a report we fear that you has concluded the implementation in application of the program .
the heritage
the behind in the construction of the new Museum of the War - Position protection of the tr?sors national
the hon. Norman K . Atkins :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
yesterday , I him have asked if the government completely really to the construction of a new Museum of the War .
the government knows - he that the House Vimy , who is full to craquer , suffering also of merged who fuient and of a ventilation and of a conditionnement of air of peerage quality , this who highlights in danger more of 12 100,000 purposes of art , whose some of great value ?
I him recommends however , therefore that to all the senators , of go visit the House Vimy .
that fact the government for ensure to this that these tr?sors national ensure protected in appeals that he wants of fund or not a new Museum Canadian of the War ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I wish to ensure personally to the Senator that , before the resuming of the business of the Senate , to the during of the new year , I close visited the home Vimy .
the question that raises the Senator is serious .
as he the points , I not in known not many to this about .
however , I take few information and I visiterai personally the site .
the new Museum of the War - Position nature of the funding private
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , my question respect a observation that the Leader of the government to the Senate has made yesterday on a about analogue .
he if 13 of the need of hear of the funds deposited of the sector private for build the new Museum Canadian of the War .
of what funding private the Minister spoke - he ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I groups referring to the possible of start a campaign of funding private to which the Canadians would invited to participate .
the Senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , this campaign will she lanc?e by the Party Liberal of the Canada , by the government of the Canada , by the former Veterans or , can - be , by of the people who have advantage of the War , as Winchester and Jeep ?
the Minister could can - be we explain how if d?roulera this campaign .
I find shame that we seeing even until to speak of this question .
I know that the senators of in opposite not little no shame when he if is of discuss of questions of this kind .
there where we want really in come , this is that we not have not of money for build a new Museum of the War and , yet , we deducted of the money for of other things , whose 1.3 million of $ for of the contracts accorded to of the Liberal in all the country .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , if I understand well , the content of some elements of the question of the Senator not was not all to fact seriously .
we have a distinguished Canadian and former veteran , the honorableBarney Associations , and his Committee , who are directly incurred in this bill .
I suppose that he participate inevitably to all the efforts who will Process for that the Canadians support financially this bill .
the Senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , when the Canadians yourself Mr. Associations how of money the government of the Canada if is committed to appropriating , that their tell he ?
the Senator Boudreau :
the business of the Senate
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , the time Allocation for the period of the questions is now expired .
the leave is - she granted of continue , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
the Speaker is intervened for ask if the senators souhaitaient extend the period of the questions .
I believe that we should have for practice of not not in Authorize the extension the Wednesday .
we should limit the period of the questions of way to this that he be possible of rise the sitting to 15 p.m. 30 , as we wish the do the Wednesday , to time for that the committees carry continue their important business .
response research to a question orale
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have the response to a question that the hon. Senator Sparrow has raised to the Senate the 16 November 99 , to the about of the possible of protect more the people against the violence .
the justice
the possible of protect more the people against the violence
( response to a question raised by the honorableHerbert O . Sparrow the 16 November 99 )
few provinces if concerned of the prohibit with violation of home .
this type of behaviour criminal is serious and seen of the fear to the citizens , particularly to the persons seniors .
the press , who has recently reported of the incidents to Vancouver , in British - British , has drew the attention on of such actions .
according the Centre international for the prevention of the crime ( CIPC ) , located to Montreal , to flight with violation of home to if committed of the effraction of home with flight qualified , this is - to - say flight of property with threat or use of violence or the two during the perp?tration of the act criminal , or well with use of a weapon attacking or of a mythology of weapon .
of such actions have held when the persons are home they , the objective of these actions met of steal of the property , of the money and of the drugs uniform .
in a report of 1996 on the statistics criminal to the Canada , the Centre Canadian of the statistics legal ( CCSJ ) has realized account of the rate of impact of the prohibit with violation of home .
the CCSJ publie of the reports on the major trends of the justice criminal .
the prohibit qualified have decreased in 1998 for the second year cons?cutive , with a decline of 3 per , the effractions have decreased of 7 per and the actions criminals violent , of 2 per for the sixth year cons?cutive .
during of the meeting of the under - ministers federal , provincial and territorial responsible of the justice , inducted and 26 February 99 , he has been agreed that the question of the flight with violation of home would referred to the senior officials for that ensure completed to this about of the opportunities of measures , legislation or other .
a document to this about is in preparedness .
the Centre national of the prevention of the crime has borne to the CIPC a study on the means of reduce and of prevent effectively the cambriolage of residence and the flight with violation of home , in which the degree and the magnitude of similar - side hand be ?valu?s , to the plans national and international , and hand be discussed the factors of risk and the best actions of prevention .
this document need help to develop of the strategies not legislation of prevention in Equity of flight with violation of home .
to the words of the provisions current of the Code criminal , a condemnation for flight qualified or flight with effraction affects a worthy maximale of sentencing to perp?tuit? .
a such worthy reflects the fact that the Parliament consider that these actions criminals are very serious .
if the flight qualified is committed with a weapon to gun , a worthy minimum of sentencing of four years is executing .
of the judgments recent dealing the flight with violation of home reflect the principles and the objectives of the determination of the worthy .
of the diversion very unclear have been prononc?es .
in R . Q Matwiy ( 1996 ) , 105 C . C . C . ( 3e ) 251 , where the contrevenant had committed a flight with violation of home , the Court of appeal of the Alberta has felt that the actions criminals who identification injured to the right of the citizens to the security of their home and to the protection against the intrusions must be Softwood with the more great seriously .
the court has reminded that the Court Supreme of the Canada also had recognized the uniqueness inviolable of the home staff and that this inviolabilit? was the a of the principles of the way way since 1604 .
few judgments of the Alberta have prepared that the worthy minimum for the flight with violation of home party be of eight years of sentencing and that this act criminal certificate a worthy minimum more toughest that the flight to labour army of a bank or of a institution commercial .
a judgment recent of the Court Supreme of the British - British , R . Q Bernier , has sentenced to quatorze years of prison a contrevenant who has participated to a intrusion in a home .
the Justice Bouck motive his decision in saying that before that reappear the scourge of the reciprocated of domiciles , the Court of appeal of the British - British numbers a worthy of sentencing variant of four to nine years when the entry by effraction was accompanied of a flight qualified but that the magnitude of the situation insisted now that the Court if precludes of the worthy normally opportunity in of such case ...
Order OF orders
the Act of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
second Reading
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Stollery , seconded by the hon. Senator Hays , seconded to the second Reading of the bill of bill C - 4 , Act Authorize implementation in implement of the Agreement concluded between the government of the Canada , the governments of States members of the Agency spatiale European , the government of the Japan , the government of the Federation of Russia and the government of the States - United of America on the cooperation Current to the Station spatiale international civil and Dolly of the changes related to of other laws .
the hon. William Kelly :
honourable senators , I am happy of speak today today of the bill of bill C - 4 .
however , I want all of first congratulate the Senator Stollery of his presentation on the bill of bill , who was clear and of quality .
the bill of bill C - 4 is necessary , because he provide to the Canada the manipulation suffer whose he has need for meet his obligations to the words of the Agreement on the cooperation Current to the Station spatiale international civil .
if I have well including , the States - United have ratified the agreed in April 1998 . Conformity Japan the has ratified in November 1998 . Conformity Germany and the Norway the have also ratified .
the process of Ratification is in during to the Canada , to the Kingdom - U and in of other country European , and the you if is set the 29 January 2000 as date target for the Ratification complete of the agreed .
he not there has that in Russia , country d?chir? by of the problems political and economic internal , that the Ratification not is not imminente for the moment .
as each the knows , in our regime , the conclusion of agreements international is the prerogative of the Crown .
the approval of the Parliament not is not necessary for the agreed proprement said ; however , she is necessary for harmonize some aspects of the legislation Canadian with the agreed .
account held of the fact that he if is of a agreed international who has of the impact oversight for the Canada on the plan economic and in the sectors of the research and of the Technology and account held of the fact that the agreed treating of several aspects until to now inexplor?s , I think that you would could give to the Parliament more of time for examine the bill of bill and the agreed therefore that their impact .
I account and I hope that these questions will scrutinized carefully in Committee - of the least , I hope that they will examined more carefully that to the other place .
what that he in be , I believe that this is a bill of bill whose we should approve the principle with enthusiasm .
this bill of bill is necessary for that the Canada can play his role of partner in the a of the more grandioses bills scientific of the history , to know the Station spatiale international civil .
honourable senators , the participation Canadian to the CFTO spatiale not represents certainly that 2.5 per of the cost total , according the estimates , but our task introducing to provide the Service of maintenance Bethune , or SEM , who Bennett a part of a importance capital .
to my knowledge , the SEM used to the patchwork of the CFTO spatiale and to in ensure the maintenance during any his life useful .
the SEM is composed of equipment and of facilities if finding as to board of the CFTO that to land .
among the elements to board of the CFTO , you account the system of t?l?manipulation of the CFTO spatiale , who is a gave spatial sophistiqu? , and his system of maintenance Bethune .
the Canada provide also the parenting to service special , who is a robot to two gave .
the Canadarm and the system of t?l?manipulation of the CFTO corollary all the two to the patchwork and to the maintenance of the CFTO spatiale during any his life useful predicted of 10 years .
the facilities to land Debates by the Canada starts a complex of operations of the SEM located to the seat Main of the Agency spatiale Canadian to St. - Hubert , to the Quebec .
the Agency spatiale has been a important catalyst for the contribution of the Canada to the industry .
the industry spatiale of the Canada is become a rouage important of the economy Canadian .
as the Senator Stollery the has fact pointed , she is to the origin of income of more of a billion of $ , whose 30 per stem of the exports .
she represents 5 100,000 jobs in more of 250 businesses of a across to the other of the country .
this is a industry in which the sector private Canadian has played a role of Prime plan .
the sector private proceeds approximately a million of $ by year in R - D linked to of the bills spatiaux .
you provides that the participation of the Canada to the bill of CFTO spatiale poorest 1.4 billion of $ and produces to the Canada more of six billion of $ and 70 100,000 years - persons in employment .
the CFTO spatiale we allow of do of the progress in the telecommunications , particularly in the telecommunications without son , who are if important for the Canada in reason of our great relates geographical and of our many communities vital .
the CFTO spatiale allow of do advance the technical of observation of the land , a sector of two billion of $ by year who is in full expansion and where the Canada if imposes already as Leader of leadership through to Radarsat .
in despite of the importance of the industry spatiale for the economy Canadian , particularly for the growth of the economy of the next generation , the funding government of the Agency spatiale Canadian is past of 378 million of $ in 1993 - 1994 to 350 million this year .
I must say , honourable senators , that I hope that that not is not a sign before - coureur of a scenario referred you authorization of time in time .
we have in effect trend to conclude of the agreements , to we Services in of the bills very important then to reduce gradually the contribution that we had agreed of confidence to the origin .
I hope that this not is not this who if proceeded .
I have said more earlier that this initiative deserved , to my notice , our support Stan. .
I not say not that only in reason of the benefits economic to short term , but for several other grounds .
the Station spatiale international not has no role military direct .
by example , she not able not serve to start of the satellites or of the missiles .
that guarantees that she used only to of the purposes harshness .
he must all particularly support and encourage the participation of the Russia to the bill .
the experience Russian , with the CFTO spatiale MIR , represents of huge benefits for the bill .
the module of service Svezda , launched in October by the agency aerospace Russian , used of first unequal of habitation and of centre of control of the CFTO until to the arrived of the module USS Destiny , to the beginning of the year next .
the fus?es russes Proton and Soyouz are also of the elements important of the bill .
the Parliament Russian not has not still commonly the process contacted of Ratification of the agreement , but I believe know that the participation Russian if fact as expected and if shall .
of a point of view can - be a little more inclusive , I pretend that the participation of the Canada him give the right of use the CFTO for lead of the experiences scientific and technical .
in under of the section 21 of the agreement , the results of all the business of research wishes by each of the partners fewer his ownership independent .
for that the Canada hook the better party possible of this opportunity without precedent , the Agency spatiale Canadian has developed on foot a program in microgravit? order that the researchers Canadian diversifying of the experience in the conception and the conduct of experiences and in the use of equipment spatial .
the program in microgravit? includes also of the funds for the training and the implementation to the point of the equipment necessary to the conduct of business of research in the CFTO spatiale .
by therefore , the Canada will fresher of a ability industrial and of research who him allow of use the full ability scientific and of research of the CFTO spatiale .
finally , honourable senators , he there has 40 years , a young chairman American we siding to the challenge of urge the new sector of the space .
when he the has fact , the world vivait in the detected of the War Cold , in the fear continuing that the competition between the two superpuissances inherent by ending to a conflagration nuclear .
the chairman Kennedy not saw in the won to the space that a won designed to allow to a superpuissance of if give a supremacy economic , scientific , military and Dreams by report to the other .
what path we have travelled !
to the during of a century who has known the first balbutiements of the Flying , we have sent a man on the Lune .
we have sent of the sondes in the confins of the space .
we placerons soon a microphone who we allow of hear for the first time the sons centuries of the planet Mars .
we not are more to the doors of a new border , as the said the chairman Kennedy .
we have now served this territory and we we grounds to benefit of the many benefits that he Ben .
however , he important more that all of highlight that in the framework of a initiative as similar of the Station spatiale international and of any a series of agreements international having relates to the space , our occupation of the site not has nothing of territorial and intended rather of the objectives scientific and of learning to the profit of any the humanity .
we happen the space not not with of the instruments of War , but well with of the instruments of peace .
honourable senators , drove of this spirit , I you please of well front study the bill of bill C - 4 .
I close forward of participate to the time to the study in Committee and to the step of the third Reading , if necessary .
his Hon. the Speaker :
if no other hon. Senator not wishes take the speak , I remind that he has been proposed by the hon. Senator Hays , seconded by the hon. Senator Moore , that the bill of bill convey the subject of a second Reading .
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill is read a second time . )
referred to the Committee
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a third time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the bill of bill is referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign . )
the Act on the Assent Royal
second Reading - Motion of amendment - Point to the regulation - Adjourned of the debate in the Awaiting of the decision of the Speaker
the Order of the day Order :
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I like do few remarks to the about of the bill of bill S - 7 .
I was intervened the 9 June 1988 on his predecessor , the bill of bill S - 15 , who was identical .
honourable senators , I believe in the Constitution of the Canada , in the monarchy constitutional , in his institutions and in Majesty Majesty , the Queen ElizabethII.
to my arrived to the Senate , I have join oath of allegiance to Majesty Majesty .
he is of my duty , account held of this oath , of confirm the rights and interests of Majesty Majesty in as that third part integral of the Parliament of the Canada .
the Act constitutional of 1867 , section 17 , states :
he there will , for the Canada , a Parliament who will composed of the Queen , of a House high called the Senate , and of the House of the Commons .
honourable senators , I thank the hon. Senator Staunton - Lynch of have licences the held of this debate who falls to point , of many more after the results of the referendum australien on the monarchy .
the 6 November 99 , the Australiens have voted by 55p. per against 45 of keep the Queen Elizabeth II for monarque .
the bill of bill S - 7 door on the prerogative Royal of Majesty Majesty regarding the granting of the Assent Royal to the bills of bill adopted by the Senate and the House of the Commons .
the subject of the bill of bill is the Assent Royal who give force of bill to the bills of bill adopted .
the bill of bill S - 7 valid a problem constitutional important and pressing .
how the Assent Royal , the instrument even who give force of bill to a bill of bill , can - she she - even do the subject of a bill of bill who , a time adopted , need receive the Assent Royal for have force of bill ?
honourable senators , the prerogative Royal is the touchstone of the government by the executive and she makes possible the fact that the government be responsible .
the prerogative Royal is if essential that the Statut of Westminster of 1931 stated that any amendment to the Kingdom - U of the succumb to the Throne or to the payments Alaska or to the 1993 party receive the whatsoever of the Parliaments of the States of the Commonwealth , whose knowing part the Canada .
the Statut of Westminster said in part follows :
whereas that he agreeable , since the day is the symbol of the free association of all the members of the Commonwealth British and that they are cohesive by a common allegiance to similar - side , of declare in preamble that would consistent to their situation constitutional the obligation of opt now any amendment of the rules of succumb to the seated and of Presented of the 1993 1888 to the whatsoever of the parlements of the dominions as to extend of the Parliament of the Kingdom - U ;
honourable senators , the media have reported in September the act of the Governor General outgoing , Mr. Rom?o LeBlanc , relatively to the armoiries of the deputy - king , his lion and the language of the lion .
the readers of the National Financial should know few facts regarding the pr?tendues armoiries of the deputy - king .
the armoiries in question not are not to the armoiries official to Mr. Rom?o LeBlanc , as you we the has said , but the armoiries royal used to the Canada , phase - and to wrong - appel?es the armoiries of the Canada .
of even , these armoiries not can not be appel?es armoiries of the deputy - king because that they doing part of the armoiries of Majesty Majesty of the Leader of the Canada , as the has confirmed the proclamation of 1921 .
wide on a other Governor General who has withdrawn a insignia Alaska of the office of the Governor General , Mr. Meyer has wrote follows :
to the during of his mandate of Gouverneure general , Ms Jeanne Sauv? has recently the paper to letter , the plats and the assiettes of Rideau Hall , and until to the gu?rites of the residence of the Governor General , of the day who was used since the beginning of the Confederation .
she the has replaced by this that his laquais d?crivirent as the to lion deputy - Alaska to , this is - to - say the embl?me who fact the subject of the dissatisfaction Mr. LeBlanc .
some say that this is a disadvantage absolute and a toeing for the House of the Commons .
the ministers find simply too disruption of there attend .
this is became too disruption for the Prime Minister , then for the ministers , then for the members , then also for the judges of the Court Supreme of the Canada .
fumisterie !
the honourable senators , however , meetings faithfully to the Assent Royal in this Room , to the Senate , the House of the Assent Royal .
honourable senators , I difference those who argue that the Assent Royal is a endorses formality .
they if trompent .
their deal false or erron?e not can , to force of r?p?titions , become true or fair .
Benjamin Disraeli , who has been Prime Minister of the Kingdom - U to the end of the 19 century , has described in his book of 1852 , Boer George Bentinck :
has Political Biography , the real force and the real sense of the Assent Royal by the Queen .
he wrote :
in as that Division of the Parliament whose the decision is final , and therefore sollicit?e in last , the opinion of the sovereign remains free and not compromised until to this that the whatsoever of the two Houses gave been received .
this veto of the monarque English not is not not more a formula vacuum .
he not is not difficult of imagine the case where his fiscal , seconded by the sympathy of a people loyalist , could defeat a cabinet anticonstitutionnel and a Parliament corrompu .
honourable senators , this is the real place constitutional of the Assent Royal in our monarchy constitutional based on the responsibility brief .
the Assent Royal is this step Parliamentary and is the only step in all our process legislative Parliamentary where the three elements establish the Parliament if Meetings for ably the Parliament of the Canada in the framework of the enacted of laws , of the changing of measures in laws .
the Assent Royal is this act quintessenciel in our system of government defeated responsible who applaud the presence of the Queen to the Parliament , this point turning in the process of Adopted of the laws to the Parliament . Position Assent Royal not is not a simple formality .
this is a procedure essential .
this is the act the more visible of the Queen of the Canada , who , since the Confederation , if fact to the Senate for of good reasons Constitutional .
the senators must protect the visibilit? of the role real of the Queen in the Parliament of the Canada and our Constitution .
the Clerk of the House of the Commons is the under - Clerk of the Parliaments .
the huissi?re of the Usher black is the messag?re personal of the Queen who plays this role between the Queen and the two Houses for allow to the Queen of if carry of his duties parliamentarians .
the duties Constitutional of the Parliament of the Canada not can be accomplies that to the Senate .
all the Parliament if together here for the speech of the Throne , that you called before the speech of the sovereign .
until in 1947 approximately , the Governor General of the Canada had his offices in the Block of the East .
still all recently , the Governor General just here , to the Senate , for proroger the Parliament and dissoudre the Houses - of the duties parliamentarians important who if exer?aient of way visible until to this that , for of the grounds administrative , the prorogation and the disbanding if actually in private , to the residence official of the Governor General , far of the eyes of the public , of his knowledge and of his understanding .
the population not can not know , because that you the him admit , his own language , culture and customs political then that the Position of the monarque in as that pivot is reduced .
the convenience administrative not is not a ground valid for disbanding of the practices Constitutional essential .
the former Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau has described the strategy nationalist current of the Quebec signing to independence underhanded to , signing to ?tapisme to , a concept invented by the late Prime Minister separatist of the Quebec , Ren? L?vesque .
they want such or such power now , such other power then , and earlier or later , the Qu?becois finiront by see that they are gouvern?s more by Quebec that by Ottawa and they expect then the great aerials in giving following to their bill .
we in do many with the monarchy to the Canada ; we supprimons a mention in the behalf of a Department , we do away a insignia here or there , we renon?ons to such or such tradition , therefore of following .
honourable senators , the Senator Staunton - Lynch believe that the change that he move of contribute to the Assent Royal must move by a bill of bill .
he has reason .
a bill of bill if imposes for amend of way also fundamental the Order constitutional of his Majesty and of the Senate to the Canada .
the Senator move of amend the prerogative Royal of Majesty Majesty in this who has relates to the Assent Royal given to the bills of bill .
this change amending a restriction .
the bill of bill S - 7 limit the fiscal of the prerogative Royal in Equity of Assent Royal and , same , limit the provision of the Senate .
a amendment of the prerogative Royal of this magnitude not can be her that by the seaway of a bill of bill , in the respect of the practice constitutional , of the right and of the lightweight parliamentarians .
to the about of the consent Alaska , Beauchesne said follows to the subsection 726.1 of the sixth edition :
honourable senators , this is a example of the ?tapisme of our monarchy .
honourable senators , in this who has relates to the step of the deliberations surrounding the consent Alaska , lecommentaire 726 ( 2 ) of Beauchesne said follows :
the use means that the consent Alaska be LG soon the pre of the debate .
his defaults makes nulles and not cooperating the deliberations pensioners in view of the Adopted of the bill of bill .
to comments of the consent Alaska and of the second Reading , the comment 727 ( 1 ) of Beauchesne said follows :
the consent of the Crown is vital each time that he if is of questions rigour in because his prerogatives .
well that the consent can be LG to not important what step of the deliberations preceding the Adopted clear of the bill of bill , the use of the House means that he the be during of the Presented of the motion Authorize second Reading .
honourable senators , the counsel of Majesty Majesty , the ministers , the conseilleurs private , seize pursuant to the rules determined , have , constitutionnellement speaking , quality for obtain the consent Alaska .
by therefore , during of the study of a bill of bill dealing the prerogatives royal , he there has all held of believe that they can mean the consent Alaska .
however , for a simple Parliamentary , the situation is very different .
for a simple Parliamentary of a party of Opposition , the situation is also interesting .
if the bill of bill of this Parliamentary of a party of Opposition receives the support of the government , the situation would strange on the plan constitutional , because the ministers of Majesty Majesty , his eminent counsel , in denying l?gislativement and parlementairement of maintain and of defend the prerogatives of Majesty Majesty , belong in calling these prerogatives same , prompted they receive their authority , their power and their pr??minence whipped .
this situation risquerait of standard a crisis constitutional .
however , I underscored here on the simple parliamentarians and on the legislation in which they could , with their bills of bill , amend the prerogatives royal .
honourable senators , the communication who if imposes for obtain the consent Alaska of Majesty Majesty has been interdependence in the fourth report of the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure , who has been presented to the Term 6 November 1985 .
I believe that this Committee was then chaired by the Senator Gildas Molgat .
the third recommendation of the report said , to the page 1469 :
that of the representatives of the Senate disclose of the representatives of the House of the Commons for write a resolution in view of the preparedness of a directed who must be introduced conjunction by the two Houses to His Excellency the Governor General the advisable of well front approve some changes to the ceremony of the Assent Royal submitted in this report .
the words key are to directed to and to the advisable of well front approve to .
all the sources who doing authority suitable that the House must receive the consent Alaska in the case of all bill of bill who severing the prerogatives royal of the Queen , before that he not be adopted in this House .
honourable senators , in this who has relates to the Position of the simple parliamentarians and to the obligation that they have others the House to the about of bills of bill similar , Alpheus Todd , in the book already quoted , has wrote :
this latitude should be given before the Presented of the bill of bill .
but when a bill of bill of interest public who meets to this description is supposed be presented by a simple Parliamentary , and not in under of the power of ministers , the House should if contact to the Crown for him ask the leave of act to this about , before the Presented proposed bill of bill ; ...
to no time he not has said how he continued proceed for ask and obtain the consent Alaska of Majesty Majesty , condition pre vital for that the Senate studying and adopt this bill of bill .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch has the duty of present a directed to Majesty Majesty the Queen for him ask of encouraging to this that we considering this bill of bill .
this is on this motion Authorize this directed that the debate public and Parliamentary if ensuivra .
motion of amendment
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
follows said , honourable senators , I like propose a amendment to the motion .
I move :
that the bill of bill S - 7 not be not now read a second time , but rather when his sponsor remplira the condition exig?e by the bill of the Parliament before the Adopted by the Parliament of a bill of bill of initiative Parliamentary amend a prerogative Royal , this condition preliminary met the latitude of the consent Alaska of Majesty Majesty to the study by the Parliament of his interests in the bill of bill S - 7 , who move of limit and of amend the formalit?s of granting of the Assent Royal by Majesty Majesty to the Canada , and of the even suddenly of amend the provision of the Senate .
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , I like that you me unacceptably a question and a observation by following of the speech of her the Senator Cools .
in the framework of his remarks , she has used the word to laquais to in speaking of the staff of the residence or of the office of the Governor General .
the Senator Cools :
I have spoke of what ?
I not have never nothing said of such .
the Senator Corbin :
you the have well said .
our practices parliamentarians we prohibit of do of the remarks irreverent on the human of the Queen or of the Governor General .
I am sure that that if spread also to the staff of the House and to extend of the Governor General .
I am also sure that the words of her the Senator Cools have beyond his thinking .
this not is not to me of him remind that he is inconvenant of use of such words , but this is very clear in the spirit of all .
I me request if the Senator Cools like withdraw his words .
I raises the question in the even spirit who we limited we against to the use of this term for describe the staff of the Senate .
I not believe not that we should describe of the sort the staff of the residence of the Governor General .
the Senator Cools :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator Corbin for his question .
I attention that he if wrong and that I not have not said this that he me fact say .
I wish to say clear to all the world here that I am probably the more great partisan that the monarque and the Governor General shifted reflected to the Senate .
I wish to well clarify that these comments not are not the pale .
the Senator Stratton :
is - this that you we m?prisez ?
the Senator Cools :
if you want take the speak , not you g?nez particularly not !
these comments not are not the pale .
I the repeat , this are the comments of the chairman of the Division of the British - British and of the Yukon of the Corporation h?raldique of the Canada , Mr. Rean Meyer .
I have read to the senators a letter Mr. Meyer has written , the 8 September 99 , to the National Financial .
if the Senator Corbin the wishes , I him fournirai with happy a copy of this section order that he can the examine and see that these comments not are not the pale , but those of the author of the letter .
I wish to well clarify that I am so caring to the office of the Governor General that I love that the Governor General come here each time that a Assent Royal if imposes .
my comments improve today today to encourage the Gouverneurs broad of the Canada to exercise their blinkers powers in as that representative staff of Majesty Majesty .
this bill of bill has his supporters as he has his detractors .
you me said that several former Gouverneurs broad not are not delighted of some provisions of the bill of bill .
I thank still the Senator Staunton - Lynch of have launched this debate because the Assent Royal fact part integral of the Senate .
when I have been appointed here , I have fact the oath of be loyal others Majesty Majesty and I jure before God of the be .
this is exactly this that I am in tain of do .
the Senator Corbin :
honourable senators , for return on this that I have said to the Senator Cools , he not should not that she if wrong on my attitude .
she has engagement many of sympathy home me for support his point of view .
however , we must do attention to this that we say .
he is came that , in the other place , the Speaker Justice that you not can not do indirectly this that he is banned of do directly .
when you quote a letter or a section of newspaper of the pen of a human who not is not a obviate in the debate , his comments becoming those of the orator .
well that this soitM. Meyer who the gave wrote , this is the Senator Cools who has prof?r? this word to the Senate .
the Senator Cools can in thinking this that she means , but I believe that that not amending nothing to his argument .
I believe rather that that rabaisse the level of the debate .
the Senator Cools :
Order to the Rules
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I point the Rules .
I request to the Speaker of take in consideration this motion that he overcome then completed .
he not there has nothing in the bill of bill who severing the prerogative Royal or the Assent Royal .
the bill of bill move simply that the ceremony traditional , who not is not subscribed by a bill , be pr?serv?e and , in preface of other possible , that the granting of the Assent Royal if embarked to the average of a message .
the prerogative of Majesty Majesty , the Assent Royal , third part constituante of the Parliament , demeurerait exactly the even .
the bill of bill not fact that propose two practices different of granted the Assent Royal , whose the a is similar that we produced already to the least two time by year .
this motion will more far that the bill of bill .
she affects a point who not is absolutely not raised in the bill of bill , to know the prerogative Royal .
by therefore , I request to His Hon. the Speaker of the declare completed .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I finish propose the adjournment of the debate .
however , the Senator Staunton - Lynch request a decision and I not know not if he agreeable of adjourn the debate in of benchmarks circumstances .
if you can the do , then I move the adjournment .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , you has invoqu? the Rules .
the practice usual in this case demands that the Speaker heard the other senators who wish speak of this Order to the Rules .
when the Speaker is of notice that the Senate has received enough of information , he can if deal or take the question in advisement .
I entendrai therefore the other senators who want speak to the about of the Order to the Rules .
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I am of agreed with the Order to the Rules of the Senator Staunton - Lynch .
the bill of bill whose we are before , and that I support , broadsides of a practice of this House and not move nothing of more .
the Governor General , and by therefore the Queen , must maintain a average of granted properly the Assent Royal to a bill of bill .
the present bill of bill treating of the process to follow for granted the Assent Royal .
according my interpretation , this legislation legislative not impropriety plans the prerogative .
the objective of this bill of bill is of put end to a ceremony who had held in this House then that or the Governor General or the members to the House of the Commons not were attendance .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
our procedures complainants a series of guarantees .
he must give a notice for that the honourable senators managing to the advance what proposal will introduced .
all condition pre opportunity to the freedom of the Assembly or of a Parliamentary of present a motion in the a or the other House of the Parliament must be explicitly portion in the Rules .
no rule not harsh of the obstacles that the senators should have to overcome before of power present a motion .
the motion of amendment whose we are before said clear that the sponsor of the bill of bill S - 7 should , before of present his bill of bill , satisfy to some conditions .
I believe that this is there the point crucial of the point to the Rules presented to the Speaker .
we must take great care of preserve the freedom who is multitude to all the honourable senators , who not must not be entrav?s by of the conditions other that those who have been determined for facilitate the good conduct of our business .
the condition who is opportunity here , according the wording direct of the amendment , move a form of censorship , in this sense that she move a sort of review pre referred all Senator should if options before of power present a motion .
the section 2 of the Rules said :
to bill of bill to : a bill of bill of the Parliament , that he be private or public .
the legislation meets to this definition , and he not there has nothing of other in the Rules whose this motion of amendment can met , to my humble notice .
the Senator Cools :
honourable senators , I like answer .
without repeat all this that I have said , I ask that , for the study of the point to the Rules , any my intervention , the points that I have raised and the Instruments that I have prevailing ensure took in consideration by Your Hon. .
before of respond to the Senator Staunton - Lynch , I wish to do pointed that his objection me seems completed .
of elsewhere , he not has not known explain why the motion is , according him , irregularly .
I d?conseille to the honourable senators of contractual the Rules in the hope of avoid of debate of some questions important .
I not pretend not that this be this that the Senator Staunton - Lynch knowing or had the intention of do .
however , if the Senator Staunton - Lynch raises a objection , he is of his duty , I believe , of we explain his grounds and of quote the precedents and the authorities on capably he if based .
of after this that I have heard and this that the Senator Staunton - Lynch has said , he not the has not fact in this case - side .
my amendment is good .
I not talking here or of the content or of the well - based of the bill of bill in itself , contrary to this that has fact the Senator Carstairs .
the Senator Carstairs support the bill of bill and discutait therefore of his content and of his well - based .
for the moment , we are before of a point to the Rules .
the honourable senators , all as His Hon. , not are not without know that we not must not we in back to the Speaker of the Senate for wishes the questions Impediment to the Constitution and to the right constitutional .
these questions must be settled by the together of the Senate .
my amendment is not definitive .
I in have left copy to the Senator Staunton - Lynch .
I not have not said that he must him impose of the limits .
honourable senators , with this Order to the Rules , he not if is not of determine if the Senator Staunton - Lynch has the right of do this that he fact .
this that we must determine , this is if the Senator Staunton - Lynch welcomes of a manner who is consistent to the Constitution of this place , to the Constitution of our country , to the laws of our country and in the interest of Majesty Majesty the Queen .
we have discussed substantially of these questions .
I will read a of the statements the more assign never made on this question .
this statement has been made to the House of the Lords , the 30 March 1911 , by Lord Lansdowne .
the honourable senators if recall can - be that this was to the then a debate key .
I remind to the honourable senators that he there has had to the Kingdom - U , to the then , a problem of the fact of the amendment of the powers of the Lords and of Majesty Majesty regarding the granting of the Assent Royal to the bills of bill adopted to the House of the Commons .
this was a debate very important , honourable senators , and I me if attendue to this that the Senator Staunton - Lynch presented some precedents and information historic .
for the moment , I will quote Lord Lansdowne .
he has said follows :
to our notice , this is certainly bringing injured to the right of the Parliament that of adopt , in the a or the other of the Houses , a bill of bill who has of the impact on the prerogatives of the Crown , that , without the whatsoever of the Crown .
honourable senators , the consent Alaska equivalent to the whatsoever pre .
he and :
I think that human not the contestera .
we concluons also , of after these precedents , that even if this Assent can be obtenue to not important what step , the procedure normal is of the obtain before the Tabled of the bill of bill .
the or that I have used in my speech precedent shows clear that he has been agreed that the consent Alaska should be obtained before the Tabled of the bill of bill .
all the sources doing authority continued that he can be obtained , including by of the ministers seize in the framework of their responsibilities , to a step later .
he not fact not of doubt that this debate if continues since of the years .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch not we has not said of what way he committed satisfy to the Assent Royal .
you can try of agencer the things not important how ; however , the fact is that any initiative or all bill of bill Parliamentary proposing of amend the prerogative Royal of Majesty Majesty must of first obtain his consent , this who is a other way of say that to the Assent must be granted to the advance to .
this used , honourable senators , has during also in a other field of the prerogative Royal , to know the initiatives financial of the Crown .
in the case of the recommendation Royal , this is more difficult .
that is expected to the sections 53 and 54 of the Act constitutional of 1867 .
this recommendation must be made to the House of the Commons before the Tabled of the bill of bill .
further to the consent Alaska , he can be awarded more later .
little important how you addressed the question , honourable senators , the fact is that human not can show of way again and credible that you can have a discussion to the Senate to the about of the future of the powers of Majesty Majesty relatively to the Assent Royal without consult of first the Governor General or Majesty Majesty the Queen she - even .
this is specifically because that this question has been n?glig?e and ?cart?e these past years that I have presented this amendment to the motion Authorize second Reading , order that a debate can if initiate on the question of know if the consent Alaska is necessary .
he me seems that he must more that the Senator outlive of the Senator Carstairs or of the Senator Staunton - Lynch .
I have to the least statement the precedents and the facts historic and I can give still many of other invisible if the debate if continues .
his Hon. the Speaker :
to the Order , if he you pleasure .
Senator Cools , I you have inquire because that I have had the Appendix that you vouliez speak of the extension of the bill of bill and not of the point to the Rules .
there has he of other senators who want speak on the point to the Rules ?
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
you not affects not to the Assent Royal .
this not is certainly not we who happen that .
he if is of a prerequisite constitutional that we respect .
the bill of bill move simply of allow of express the Assent Royal differently , the form current met remained .
by therefore , I believe that all the manipulation of the motion are await and that this is this that should declare the Speaker .
his Hon. the Speaker :
there has he of other honourable senators who wish speak on the point to the Rules ?
if , I take the question in advisement .
( adjournment of the debate in appeals the decision of the Speaker . )
Affairs legal and Constitutional
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
leave having been granted of move to the motions :
the hon. Lorna Milne , pursuant to the notice 25 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional be authorized to sit adjourn p.m. 30 the Wednesday 1 December 99 , even if the Senate seat to this time - there , and that the application duparagraphe 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
his Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I not repeat not this that I have said more of a time here .
if I me objects to this kind of motion , this not is not that I want blame the chairmen of the committees .
in fact , I the plains because that they are to the taken with a lag who the force to sit to 15 p.m. 30 the Wednesdays .
he there has four committees in this situation , whose extend of the Affairs foreign , extend of the Banking and of the trade , and extend of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
I not want not say that he there has of the committees who are least important that of other , but this are there some of the committees the more active .
someone a their has imposed a lag who the force to sit to 15 p.m. 30 , knowing very well that he is came more of a time recently that we used beyond - beyond of 15 p.m. 30 . We are even achievement sometimes until to 17 p.m. ou18 p.m. .
by therefore , these committees must ask constantly to the Senate the leave of sit in even time that the Senate .
why not can - you not vigorous the lag of the committees and the adapt to the lag of the Senate to the held of ask to the Senate of adapt his lag to extend of the committees ?
this is also simple that that .
I understand the Senator Milne .
the Senator Kolber if furthered to ask the even leave , and I understand why .
this is our fault because that we have agreed a lag who not works not well .
we should meet our calendar here and decide that , the Wednesdays , we l?verons the sitting to 15 p.m. 30 , little important the situation .
this is this who had been agreed to the then .
now , we sit rarely the Monday night , but we want that the sitting of the Wednesday be always short .
this system not works not .
after the break , I hope that someone a carrying a calendar more realistic that extend whose we begin currently .
still a time , I timely my frustration , that many shared , to my notice .
I am satisfied that if , to our return in February , of the changes not have not been Regional , you refusera of give the leave for require the Senate to amend this calendar who , of any obviously , not works not .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have took the speak the last time that the Senator Staunton - Lynch is spoken on this question , and I the getting still a time .
I not am not in disagreement with him .
in fact , I understand strong well his argument .
in as that Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate - and I believe have the cooperation of the senators of in opposite on this question - , I believe that we seek to improve the calendar .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the hon. Senator Milne , seconded by the hon. Senator Taylor , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional be authorized to sit adjourn p.m. 30 the Wednesday 1 December 99 , even if the Senate seat to this time - there , and that the application duparagraphe 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Banking and trade
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Leo E . Kolber :
honourable senators , of first , I wish to thank the Leader of the Opposition of his comments .
we not are that of poor senators working in the tranch?es and we take our levels .
with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the subsection 58 ( 1 ) of the Rules , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade be authorized to sit to 15 p.m. 30 today today , even if the Senate seat to this time - there , and that the application of the subsection 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
his Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
energy , environment and resources natural
motion designed to Authorize the Committee to examine the Act Canadian on the protection of the environment - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Mira Spivak move , pursuant to the notice of motion of the 2 November 99 :
that the Senate urge the government to / on - the - cast his review of the Act Canadian on the protection of the environment and to serves the first step of this review to the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural .
that the Committee Senate Standing Senate of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural entreprenne on - the - cast his review of the Act Canadian on the protection of the environment as he is recommended unanimous in the seventeenth report of the Committee who is 115 of the 8 September 99 and who has been tabled to the Senate the next .
his Hon. the Speaker :
leave is - she granted of amend the motion such that proposed by the hon. Senator Spivak ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Spivak :
I move that the motion amended be placed to my behalf .
his Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion such that amended ?
the Senator Spivak :
honourable senators , this motion exhorant the government to / on - the - cast his review of the Act Canadian on the environment not is not my way hurling of proceed , or in fact similar of the senators of this side - side of the House .
we wanted power amend a bill of bill who suggests angry to wanting before that he not be adopted .
unfortunately , we not have not could improve the faults bill C - 32 .
you we has imposed the demons to two occasions , a time in Committee and a time here , to the Senate .
he not we has even not been possible of we ensure that a some clause of the bill of bill had well the even sense in French and in English .
the senators of the other side have proposed in their report majority that the government stakeholder the next review of the bill of bill C - 32 immediately after his Adopted .
that allow to all the Canadians of express their notice and of follow the progress that fact the Minister in this who respect the advancement and the definition of concepts as the to strengths to , the to quasi - Elimination to , the to agreements Government in Equity of environment to and the to principle of the prudence to .
to our notice , let the considering leave the pier then ask to the conducteur of return and of you say where will the considering not is not a way of do .
we have the duty of we ensure of the latitude of these concepts and of ensure to this that these concepts ensure clear d?finis in the bill of way to this that they ensure compr?hensibles for all the Canadians .
we have heard the Minister passion of a former official , who we has asked of not not overlooked of define this that he needed hear by to cost - effectiveness to .
he we has been asked of not not let the officials if d?patouiller all only when they dollar to apply the bill for protect the health public and the environment .
the senators of in opposite wanted do the things differently and they we have therefore fact of the proposals .
to true say , a part of this that they have recommended not is not achievable .
the review mindful , expected to the section 343 , must allow of farewell the entirety of the provisions of the bill and his operating .
we not can not check by where the considering is past before that he not gave merit his parcours , but we can all of even farewell the program of routing established by the m?canicien .
we can we dealt on the guideline of application of the bill , ensured by the Minister .
as the has proposed the majority to the Committee , we can begin by give to the Canadians the possible of express their point of view and then monitor the evolution of the things .
you not can deal that nine marine by day , 365 days by year , or plusde 13 marine by day , if the you keeps account of the days f?ri?s and of the purposes of week .
is - this that this is feasible ?
presumably , some of these 23 100,000 marine not are more used and this would a real rallye that of seek to the discover .
for those who the are still , the Minister has the choice between two options .
then , the officers can try of do the part the more complex of the work , this is - to - say obtain the data who consequences if the exposing to a substance to a concentration given on a period of time given is separate for the beings human or for the environment .
in of many case , there including for some of the few marine who if find on the list of the marine of interest priority , the data of exposing are very difficult to obtain .
this is for this single reason that several marine not have not been r?glement?es .
the second option who if offer to the Minister introducing to meet these steps and to credit the process .
I know that , to least that he not choisisse this last option , some industries are ready to the continue in justice .
he not would not in their interest that the officers classent their marine chemical as toxic .
I am d?sol?e that this be someone little complex , but he should many of time for rapporter all the arguments and explanation who we have been supplied during the process of this bill of bill .
I hope that you me croirez on speak for this type of folder .
that is - this that this will ?
a process formed or a process that some industries prefers .
the members of the Committee carelessly implement useful , even if they not teamwork that airing this who fact problem .
he would also useful that the Minister explain the plan that he committed follow for enable the quasi - Elimination .
our Committee has received the note of service in which a of his senior officials had wrote that the quasi - Elimination , such that the new bill of bill the provides , would impossible to enable .
we like know exactly how the Minister committed proceed for obtain of good results .
this is important for the Canadians , in particular for those of the North .
you advocating the model Canadian to the negotiations in view of develop a convention World on the reduction of the polluants converter works .
in the absence of a treaty rigorous , the Arctic Canadian continue of be the worse d?potoir to the world of wastes toxic such that the wastes , the products of the d?sagr?gation of the DDT and of other products chemical bioaccumulatifs persistant in the air .
by therefore , when the delegates to the purposes of the treaty on the POP if meeting in March next to Bonn , the Minister should be prepared to options to the review the model Canadian .
of here there , we should have fact our devoirs and given to the Canadians the opportunity of express their opinions .
for of the reasons very practices , I move that this review immediate gave held before our meeting of the Committee of the Senate .
first , the program of the Committee of the other place is already full .
he not has not still succeeded to complete a review of the system regarding the pesticides .
the Minister has promised a important legislation legislative regarding the cash in danger and , with a little of fortunate , we should have to we dealt on of the measures legislation regarding the change climate .
our Committee not has currently not a big backlog of bills of bill to study .
second , this is our Committee who has been submitted to the b?illon and who has proposed that the review starts the more quickly possible .
third , the Committee of the other place if is interested by intermittence to the Act Canadian on the protection of the environment during six years .
he if is well fought and , in across of bobsleds , his point of view has been rejected by a government who has listened the groups of pressure of the industry .
he would fair of say that he has contribute all the efforts possible , of the least for a sure time .
of this side - side of the House , the objective to long term remains of improve the legislation legislative .
we item between other things speak for correct the fact that the legislation legislative not demands not that the government adopt of the measures in view of eliminate gradually not would - this that a small of the elements toxic the more polluants .
these polluants are excepting for all the Canadians , and more particularly for the population of the North .
the bill not demands not that the government respect a principle of pr?caution who means really someone something .
in reality , he there has contradiction between the two languages official .
you excludes the tis of a participation to a new Committee Advisory national .
you not recognizes not the efforts lending volunteers by of the companies responsible of the sector private .
he not there has no legislation approval account of the concerns grievous regarding the health environmental of the children .
you reduced the power of the Minister of the Environment and you entrusted the taken of decisions to the Governor in board , particularly for this who is of the questions regarding the products of biotechnologie .
you withdrew also the power of the Minister of the Environment of examine the effects seeing of products biotechniques .
on this last point , you can the hope , the government hesitant to present to new the bill of bill C - 80 on the foods .
of the groups of interest therefore that of many scientific of the Department of the Health if are contrary to this that the cabinet if empare of the power of the Minister of the Health of protect the Canadians , because this is his duty .
I hope that this bill of bill will reformul? for the better .
we had hoped study the question during many more of p.m. to the Committee before that the bill of bill revised not trading bill .
however , that not if is not product and this is now of the history former .
we request the senators of in opposite to support their own recommendation and to clamour a review exhaustive of the Act Canadian on the protection of the environment by our Committee the more earlier possible .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
her the hon. Senator Spivak agree - she of answer to a question ?
the Senator Spivak :
yes .
the Senator Hays :
the motion original of the hon. Senator offences the government to take some measures .
we have agreed that she be amended for that you written rather a study complete by the Committee that the hon. Senator behind .
is - this there a something whose the Committee has discussed ?
in of other words , normally , a work of this nature just generally of the Committee to the following of his discussions and of his expressed of / a study special .
is - this the case in the actions ?
the Senator Spivak :
not , as the hon. Senator Hays the knows strong well .
that if referring to a legislation agreed lines by the Committee during his review of the Act Canadian on the protection of the environment .
if the Senate wish refer the question to the Committee , I think that the Committee need examine the question and see if he can folder this study in his calendar .
he is question of / a review .
the last has took five years .
this is in service of that that I pretend that our Committee should / this review rather that a Committee of the other place who , as the honourable senators the know , would many of other things to study before that that not we parvienne .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I know that you not had not discussed of the motion to the Committee .
is - this that the Senator Spivak could raise the question to the Committee Whole and we say if he means lead the study or not ?
the Senator Spivak :
he appropriate can - be that someone a adjourned the debate .
( on the motion of the Senator Taylor , the debate is adjourned . )
the business of the Senate
Order to the Rules
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
the intention is behind this expression .
I wish to quote here the Prime subsection of the comment 485 of the sixth edition of the 286 Parliamentary of Beauchesne :
the use of looks not parliamentarians can be pressing to the House by the chairman or by not important what member .
the member who in takes the initiative must contractual the Rules and not raise a question of privilege .
in this who respect this that I consider as a expression not Parliamentary , I like me aside here the right of examine the account realized and of return on this case to the next sitting of the Senate .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the Senator Corbin request , in fact , to this that a Order to the Rules be deferred .
as we the know , the Rules means that when you has to contractual the Rules , you the convey to the first opportunity .
this is this that the Senator has fact today today .
is - this of agreed for that he continue tomorrow , a time that he will read the text ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Cools :
not .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the Senator Cools not is not of agreed .
the Senator Corbin :
the human who has said to not to not the has not fact to departure of his Chair .
his Hon. the Speaker :
he not there has not agreed for that the study of the motion be surgeons to tomorrow .
the Senator Corbin :
your Hon. , met given that the comment provides that to the use of looks not parliamentarians can be pressing to the House by the Speaker or by not important what member to , then - I propose that you true on you of pay a decision in this case ?
his Hon. the Speaker :
the Order to the Rules is valid .
a hon. Senator me has asked of examine the text and of determine if the rules have been enfreintes .
I me commitment to the do .
energy , environment and resources natural
Authorized to the Committee of study of the questions related to his mandate
the hon. Mira Spivak , pursuant to the notice 24 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural , in Conformity with the section 86 ( 1 ) prospered ) of the Rules , be authorized to study the questions who could telecom occasionally if 2:07 to the energy , to the environment and to the resources natural in General ; and
that the Committee convey report to the Senate to the more later 31 March 2000 .
his Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee of Services of the staff and of if adjourn - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Mira Spivak , pursuant to the notice 24 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , personnel , employees of office or other elements necessary for examine the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have been An ; and
that the Committee be authorized to if adjourn to across the Canada and to the abroad to the purposes of such reviews .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , you pleasure - he of adopt the motion ?
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . )
Authorized to the Committee of allow the Electronic of his deliberations by the media electronic
the hon. Mira Spivak , pursuant to the notice 24 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural be authorized to allow the meaning of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
his Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate if adjourned to 14 p.m. tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 15
the Thursday 2 December 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
' ' '
the Day international of the persons disabilities
the Francophonie
the Day national of comm?moration
the tenth anniversary of the tragedy Westray to the school Polytechnique
the Treaty international prevented the mines land
second anniversary
the quaranti?me meeting Annual held to Quebec
the environment
the Manitoba - Position d?rivation of the waters of the Lake Devil in Dakota of the North
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
bill of bill on the snitch in the service public
first Reading
branch Canadian of the church morave of America
the Group Parliamentary Canada - States - United
Tabled of the report of the quaranti?me meeting Annual held to Quebec
fisheries
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to study of the questions Impediment to his mandate
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to Services of the staff
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to allow the Electronic of his deliberations by of the means electronic
the Estimates of the Estimates for 99 - 2000
Presented and Appendix in Printed of the Report of the Committee of the Finance national on the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A )
PERIOD PERIOD question
the transport and the Communications
the operation of search of Inter - Canadian - Position possible of a study by the Committee Senate
the transport
the v. of the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - Changes consequences of the ascertain took in under of the section 47 of the Act on the transport to the Canada
the Affairs Indian
the Nova - Nova - Changes attempts of suicide in the contingency of Membertou - Request of measures concrete and stately for help the communities aboriginal
the Nova - Nova - Changes attempts of suicide in the contingency of Membertou - Position request of the leaders of the bunch of meet the Minister
the health
the transfers of funds to the provinces
the Finance
the report of the Auditor General - Conformity effectiveness of the planning budget to long term
response research to a question orale
the Affairs foreign
the increase of the Estimates of capital in the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) - Position possible of open of new celebrating
Order OF orders
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Continued of the debate
bill of bill admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical
second Reading - Continued of the debate
bill of bill on the perquisitions and the saisies international
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
privileges , Rules and procedure
third report of the Committee - Withdrawn of the section
the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations
inquiry - Continued of the debate
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
notice of motion Authorize Authorized to the Committee of the Finance national to study the Budgets of the Estimates - Adjourned of the debate
motion of amendment
Finance national
Authorized to the Committee of according his deliberations by of the means electronic
Authorized to the Committee of Services of the staff
adjournment
the SENATE
the Thursday 2 December 99
the sitting is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker met to the Chair .
prayers .
the Day international of the persons disabilities
the hon. M. Robertson :
honourable senators , tomorrow , the 3 December , will held the Day international of the persons disabilities .
the Canadians if joindront to of the million of persons in the world for celebrate the progress obviously in the file world dealing the persons disabilities .
the Senate of the Canada there involved .
all the Canadians , but particularly the Canadians disabilities , rely on we for promote their vision of a society where the equality of the opportunity for all would a reality .
the senators are , well course , all to fact supportive to this vision , and today today represents a other not of more toward the realizing of this vision .
the senators if remember without doubt that in 1998 , we we are incurred to develop a strategy designed to improve the access to the Senate of the Canadians disabilities and to their allow of participate more to the Affairs of the Senate .
that includes the visitors , the Canadians wanting of if information on the Senate , the participation to the business of the committees , the employees of the Senate and the honourable senators of this House who are disabilities .
we have deliberation for a approach to three consistently : a guide of the Senator on the disability , a plan of action and of the sittings of training and of education .
the to Guide of the Senator on the disability to is a document of reference to the use of we all ; he give of the information and of the advice on the way of answer to the questions that if pose some Canadians to the about of various d?ficiences .
this is also a guide practice who confirms our role drives in the research of the equality for all and of the changes to contribute to the level community .
he is of a Reading quick and I the d?poserai to the Senate the week next .
I attention to the senators that this guide will also disposable on the Intranet of the Senate order of in allow the Reading with assistance technologique .
the text para?tra soon in braille .
the second track includes a plan of action in Equity of disability , who if indicates realistic and give of the results mesurables .
some of our colleagues and officials to the Senate have undertaken of develop this plan , encadr?s by a team of experts of the condition of the disabilities .
the questions are complex and the plan will relatively exhaustive , in this that he occasionally of the information , subsumed of the situation of the employment , of the assistance technical , of the facilities and of the security .
this document in is to the first cycles of his development .
the plan of action of the Senate of the Canada not face not our environment , or of manner tangible , or of the day to the next , but he could , in time timely , serve of example to the other representations perspective .
I am impatiente of me join to the Senator Carstairs for you present this plan of action in February 2000 .
the third track of our strategy door on the conduct of sittings of training and of education to the condition of the disabilities , includes a Matter of information on the questions of today disciples , a list of the major players of this community and of the information on the prospects and the obstacles in the next millennium .
the document explicatif will also prepared in February 2000 .
honourable senators , hence how we can give to the together of the Canadians the possible of participate fully to the business of the Senate .
he not is that fair that , in this eve of the Day international of the persons disabilities , we renouvelions our commitment to the regard of the integration and of the equality for all .
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , the Senator Robertson if is montr?e very generous to my place today today , in this eve of the Day international of the persons disabilities .
to various occasions , she has spoke to the first human of the pluriel .
honourable senators , he must understand that this is to the Senator Brenda Robertson that we must this action .
I have only participated to the production of the document who you will release the week next and to the development of the plan of action that you seen more later .
of other persons important have participated to this action ; they are weakened to the gallery North .
if they are weakened to the gallery North , honourable senators , this is because that this gallery is now accessible to the persons disabilities .
are attendance to this tribuneM. Skip Brooks , Mr. Lawrence Euteneier , Mr. Jim Turner , Ms Balzile Fleury - Morena , Ms Pina DiFranco and Ms Julie Richer .
are absent Ms Marie Trudeau , Ms Bernette Quade bearer Luc Clairoux .
I thank her the Senator Robertson of open the seaway to this initiative .
the Francophonie
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , I talking often of the Francophonie international .
also , several persons me have asked this that was the Francophonie .
that me remind a experience , he there has few years fellow , then that I have had the happy of meet Val?ry Giscard De Estaing , the former chairman of the France .
I was informed of my colleague , the hon. Senator De De .
I have asked the question Mr. Giscard of Estaing , to know this that represented the Francophonie .
he me has answered : to This is the France ! to
I have including that he there had a misunderstanding , because that for me , the Francophonie , this not is not the France , this is many more that that .
then I have sought and found the definition that following :
the Francophonie is of first the community of the Peoples who , to of the degrees various , speak or use the French in their life national or in their relations international .
but she is also a together of organizations and of associations , governmental or not governmental , incurred in of the sectors of activities and of the areas of interest common to the members of the community French .
since the changeover of the Heads of the Francophonie , who Meetings the leaders of state and of government of the country having the French in sharing , the Francophonie is become a held of dialogue policy and of trade who commit to the mobilisation of the resources necessary to the activities of the cooperation of the Peoples .
honourable senators , I believe that this definition is exactly .
the Day national of comm?moration
the tenth anniversary of the tragedy Westray to the school Polytechnique
the hon. Catherine S . Callbeck :
honourable senators , the 6 December 99 Gallery the 10e anniversary of the tragedy Westray to the school Polytechnique of Montreal .
the 6 December , he there has 10 years , a man arm? of a fusil has election in the school and killed 14 women simply because that they were of the women .
this event is a point cruel to all the Canadians of the fact that the violence made to the women is a problem by too draft .
this tragedy we has forced to take conscience of the importance of this problem and has considerations our efforts in view of put end to the violence made to the women .
the Canadians have acted in being the 6 December the Day national of comm?moration and of action against the violence made to the women .
to present , each year , the Canadians if remember and education tribute not only to the 14 women who are 116 this day of 1989 , but also to the women who live all the days under the threat of the violence and to those who have been victims of actions of violence d?lib?r?s .
you has also organized of the events as the Campagne of the rubans counterparts , who encourage the men to put a boots white and to if Services to not never mistake of actions of violence against the women or to close the eyes or to remain nothing on this kind of actions .
the Council Advisory of the situation of the wife of the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward has developed on foot a Campagne of the rubans violets who famous his eighteenth anniversary this year .
in the framework of this campaign , you distribue approximately 8 100,000 rubans violets and of the cartes to the population of the Island .
this program contributes to awareness more the population to the violence to the regard of the women and of the children .
the government federal and the governments provincial to the Canada have also took of the measures recent .
the Declaration of Iqaluit , proclaimed squeeze , the 6 December 1998 , in all the provinces and all the territories of a across to the other of the country , reflects the determination of the governments to put end to the violence against the women .
this are there of the measures positive , but he rest still many to do .
this year , the 6 December , I hope that we upon all the time not only of remind the remember of all the women victims of violence , but of show to of the measures concrete to take for avoid the violence against the women .
the Treaty international prevented the mines land
second anniversary
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , this is today today the second anniversary of the Treaty international prevented the mines land .
the treaty of 1997 prevented the use , the production , the Destruction and the transfer of the mines land Anti has been ratified by 89 country and signed by 136 .
in September 1998 , 40 country had ratified the treaty , of sort that the treaty is became bill international the 1 March 99 .
the treaty testimony not only of a commitment to covering the world of the mines land , but is the evolved of the court of objectives humanitarian of the share of the government Canadian and of the Minister of the Affairs foreign , Mr. Axworthy .
we should also ageless the work of Mines depended Canada and of other agencies anim?s of the same ideas who continue their efforts order of build a culture of the peace .
the Canada must maintain his efforts for build a culture of the peace and for ensure a world fair and without danger for the children of the world who , too often , are the innocence victims of the effects horribles of the War , also well during that after the conflict .
the Group Parliamentary Canada - States - United
the quaranti?me meeting Annual held to Quebec
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , in quality of Chairman of the delegation Canadian , I presenting more later today today the report of the quaranti?me meeting Annual of the Group Parliamentary Canada - States - United , who has had held to Quebec of the 20 to the 24 May 99 .
in approval this year the meeting to Quebec , we have followed the trend established to the opportunity of a other meeting having had held to the Canada he there has two years to the Forteresse of Louisbourg to the Cape - Cape and having known his apog?e to the Room of the Confederation to Charlottetown , in the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward .
in quality of Chairman of the delegation , I wishes that all in drafts with our colleagues U.S. , we their hear better understand the environment Canadian and that we their drama a lesson concrete of history Canadian .
we have had of the trade open and front on the swollen of problems who paradoxes our relations bilateral .
we not must never forget that , well that the factors of friction commercial between our two country ensure instantan?ment relev?s by the media , 97p. per of our trade bilateral if move of way peaceful , effective and effective for our two country .
these links of work strong with our colleagues of the Congress of the States - United we help to solve the problems who begin sometimes to this place .
a of these problems , and not the less , is the recent decision of the executive American of repudiate the date of entry in force of the section 110 of the Act on the Immigration and the naturalisation of the States - United , be a proposal in under of which will required a visa for enter to the States - United .
the questions that we have raised to the opportunity des38e , 39e and 40e meetings annual of our group have resulted the Presented of two bills of bill of interest private to the Congress .
honourable senators , you has awarded a great attention to the embouteillages matching to the article frontaliers , who are occurred to the increase fulgurante and growing of the trade to the during of the five past years and of the chevauchements of jurisdiction who there apparaissent .
the chairmen and of the members have recently participated to Washington to a conference of the Can - Am Border Trade Alliance .
I will present to the Senate a report on this meeting to the during of the next days .
honourable senators , I like a time of more you encourage all to read the abr?g? of the questions who if find in the report who will tabled a little more later , to become members of this association and to work actively with we in view of increase our relations with our colleagues U.S. for a future beneficial for our two country .
the questions who we closer are more many that those who we divisent .
yet , our relations trade require a resolute continuing and a expeditiously reasonable .
let - me of thank my Chairman Canadian , Joe Comuzzi , of the other place , our responsible of the employees , Carol Chafe , our chairmen U.S. , the s?nateurFrank Murkowski of the Alaska and the representative Amo Houghton of the state of New York , their staff and all the honourable senators for their wonderful cooperation in the interest of our two great country .
we comptons well that the Senate plays a role active in all these business during of future meetings .
the environment
the Manitoba - Position d?rivation of the waters of the Lake Devil in Dakota of the North
the hon. Janis Johnson :
honourable senators , I like draw your attention on the events who if produced to the Manitoba to the about of the bill of d?rivation of the waters of the Lake Devil .
this is a behalf effrayant for a bill of facility hydraulique effrayant .
the state of the Dakota of the North provides torrential the water in too of the Lake Devil in the Newcastle Red .
as you the know can - be , the Newcastle Red facing the border for enter to the Manitoba and just if look in the Lake Winnipeg .
the Newcastle Red is the habitat of someone 50 cash of poissons of water Freshwater and the biologistes rightly that she is the second seaway of water the more rich to the Canada after the River St. - Lawrence .
to because of the problems of flood to the Lake Devil , the state of the Dakota of the North means creuser a factual of drainage of three miles of long who resulting in the Newcastle Red .
the Lake Devil is strongly salin and he contains of the products chemical toxic .
something more important , you there groups of the poissons extremely agressifs and without potential commercial who are foreign to the waters Canadian .
these cash of poissons owned to the pool hydrographique of the Gulf of the Mexico .
the Newcastle Red , as all the rivers of the Manitoba , if discredit in the pool hydrographique of the Arctic .
these affected hydrographiques are divided by a live natural and their cash respective are demeur?es separated since 10 100,000 years .
the introduction of the poissons of the Lake Devil in the Newcastle Red would also risqu?e that the introduction of the peace in Australia .
in as that Senator of the Manitoba , dispose of a ground riverain of the Lake Winnipeg and member of the group of monitoring of the Lake Winnipeg , I can you guarantee that that will become a bill very controversial .
the Lake Winnipeg fact already opposite to of serious threats .
the r?gulation of the Lake to of the purposes hydro?lectriques contributes to the floods and to the erosion of the berges .
the levels of water artificiellement high have virtually destroyed the marais of the Lake Netley , stood legends .
this bill could become the clou in the cercueil of the a of our more great lakes Canadian .
I am pleased of see that the government federal if interest finally to the question .
in a statement that he has made the months last , he has said that he not consent no diversion who could Establishing a threat for the waters Canadian .
however , the Prime Minister Gary Doer of the Manitoba has visited recently the site proposed and he has announced to his return that the Dakota of the North continued deal the bill in priority , providing begin the construction soon the months of October next .
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
bill of bill on the snitch in the service public
first Reading
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) presented the bill of bill S - 13 , Act designed to promote the prevention of the conduites reprehensible in the service public in setting a framework for the education in this who has relates to the practices substandard to the Ethics in environment of work , the treatment of the allegations of conduites reprehensible and the protection of the d?nonciateurs .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
branch Canadian of the church morave of America
bill of bill private amend the bill establish in human moral - First Reading
the hon. Nicholas W . Taylor presented the faults bill S - 14 , Act amend the bill establish in human moral the Council of the former of the branch Canadian of the church morave of America .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Taylor , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the mardi7 December 99 . )
the Group Parliamentary Canada - States - United
Tabled of the report of the quaranti?me meeting Annual held to Quebec
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table , in the two languages official , the report of the quaranti?me meeting Annual of the Group Parliamentary Canada - States - United who if is held to Quebec , of the 20 to the 24 May 99 .
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to study of the questions Impediment to his mandate
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , I give notice that Tuesday next , the 7 December 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the fisheries be authorized to study , order of present a report on of the questions Impediment to the industry of the fisheries ;
that the Committee convey report to the more later unsuccessful December 2000 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices usual , to table his report deposited of the Greffier of the Senate if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be reputation have been tabled to the Senate .
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to Services of the staff
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , I give notice that Tuesday next , the 7 December 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the fisheries be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , personnel , employees of office or other elements necessary for examine the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have been An .
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to allow the Electronic of his deliberations by of the means electronic
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , I give notice that Tuesday next , the 7 December 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the fisheries be authorized to allow the meaning of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
the Estimates of the Estimates for 99 - 2000
Presented and Appendix in Printed of the Report of the Committee of the Finance national on the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A )
leave having been granted of return to the Presented of reports of committees Standing or special :
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I have the honour of present the second report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national who door on the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) for 99 - 2000 .
I request that the report be printed in Printed to the Journals of the Senate of today today .
his Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when taken - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Murray , the study of the report is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
PERIOD PERIOD question
the transport and the Communications
the operation of search of Inter - Canadian - Position possible of a study by the Committee Senate
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications .
if yes , that has he said regarding the situation financial of his company ?
if , have - you the intention of hear the testimony Mr. Myhill ?
the hon. Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , the Committee not has not still fact report because he not has not concluded his business .
we going sit the week next and when the report will concluded , I the presenting to this House .
the Senator Kinsella :
your Committee , as the Committee of the other place , has he the intention of study this situation very serious or if is - he of a case standard of the Committee ?
the Senator Bacon :
honourable senators , our Committee has received a Order of referred and the mandate of this House is respected by the Committee .
this is this that we do in this time and when we regards concluded , we d?poserons the report .
the transport
the v. of the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - Changes consequences of the ascertain took in under of the section 47 of the Act on the transport to the Canada
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I have a question supplementary of more for the Leader of the government to the Senate .
following a from of the second page of this letter :
he not fact no doubt that Inter - Canadian is the victim of political and of measures con?ues for serve the interests of other stakeholders of the sector , whose several have advantage to this that Inter - Canadian disparaisse .
we we forward to this that the shareholders of Inter - Canadian insistent for that we ask to our lawyer of examine the situation in detail and of take all the measures judicial and other to our clause for rectify the situation .
what is the Position of the government to the regard of his responsibility for the difficulty that the chairman of Inter - Canadian said internalize by following of the events who have followed the ascertain took to the words of the section 47 of the Act on the transport to the Canada ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
I thank the hon. Senator of his question .
I not have not had the opportunity of study carefully the letter of the chairman of Inter - Canadian or his statement regarding the situation of his company .
if he think have a ground for falsity of the prosecutions against the government of the Canada , I am sure that he the will .
I know the magnitude of the difficulties financial that Inter - Canadian charge currently or ?prouvait before that he be question of approach to the section 47 .
I not know not if these difficulties financial older of before this Order or if they are occurred to of other factors relating to the exploitation of this company .
the responsibility of the government of the Canada has been stated clear by the Minister of the Transport when he has described the principle according which the service to the small communities Canadian is sufficient and continue of be sufficient .
he is difficult of say if this responsibility if spread to the fate of a company particular in of the circumstances data .
the government and the Minister have clear established the principles of their action .
I not will not the repeat , because I am sure that the hon. Senator knows all the principles who guideront the action of the government .
the Affairs Indian
the Nova - Nova - Changes attempts of suicide in the contingency of Membertou - Request of measures concrete and stately for help the communities aboriginal
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the week last , to Sydney , in Nova - Nova , four children , seniors of 9 to 13 years , are achievement in the forest in their contingency , profoundly to put crudely end to their days .
two boys of the bunch Membertou , third contingency Mi' kmaq in importance of the province , have really tried of if deleted the life in if during to a tree - a with a chord to linge and the other with a chord .
the police and the other children have succeeded to cut the string to time .
of the communities are in crisis across to the Canada .
of the children aboriginal , of the children Canadians if tuent .
according a study In in 1997 to the University of Toronto , the rate annual of the suicides home the aboriginal seniors of 15 to 24 years is of approximately 110 for per 100,000 population - in comparison of 25 suicides for per 100,000 population home the persons of the even group of age in the rest of the population .
Tuesday , the board and the Leader of the bunch Membertou have implor? the Department of the Affairs Indian of the help in finan?ant properly of the programs of counselling 118.8 to the parents and to the children aboriginal .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I am to the aware of the situation general to which the Senator has fact referring .
I not am however not to the aware of the details precise of the incidents in question .
what that he in be , the challenge that we pose of the communities as Membertou , and he there has of the communities of this kind a little across in the country , is real and there since of the decades , even since of the centuries .
the government of the Canada attempts of met this challenge of a way constructive , to the average of the many programs offered by the Department .
I am course that the Minister in question chair seriously the requests presented by the representatives of Membertou .
in fact , I hope me maintain with him and with few - each of the representatives of this community , to the during of the next days .
the Nova - Nova - Changes attempts of suicide in the contingency of Membertou - Position request of the leaders of the bunch of meet the Minister
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , he is interesting that the Leader of the government gave spoke of the Minister of the Affairs Indian and of the North Canadian , Mr. Robert Nault , because , as he the knows , the board and the Leader of the bunch Membertou have asked to meet directly the Minister .
the Minister is - he prepared to access to this request ?
if yes , when ?
in the few weeks to come ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not have learned that few minutes before of come to the Senate that a meeting had been demand?e .
I will do my possible for facilitate the things .
in last resort , the decision belongs to the Minister him - even , but I know that he cite hold account of the circumstances who around this request and that he able there access soon that possible .
the health
the transfers of funds to the provinces
the hon. Jean - Claude Rivest :
honourable senators , I like ask to the Minister if he has the intention of awareness his colleagues of the Council of the ministers to a of the problems unambiguous of all the regions to the Canada , to know the funding of the services of health , of the services social and of the education ?
if you reads the newspapers or if you following the situation in the hospitals of each of the provinces of the Canada , you note that the governments of the provinces are to the taken with of the difficulties oversight of under - funding .
this lack of resources financial for support the quality of the care of to little almost all the institutions hospitals to the country brings a Compared of staff and of equipment , a encombrement of the wards of emergency , a reduction of the resources and of the staff succeeds deposited of the persons seniors , and cetera .
the government federal stellar and limit of surplus challenges .
to the held of put on foot of the bills who arise a sure interest , as by example the scholarships of the millennium in the field of the education or , recently , a program for combat the diabetes , the Minister not think he not that he would time that the government Canadian implementation a part extremely important of his surplus to a transfer to the governments of the provinces ?
in more of allow the good operating of our regime federal and the Protective expeditiously of services to the together of the population , this transfer of the surplus step to these governments of assume of a way d?cente their responsibilities Constitutional in the field of the health , of the services social and of the education .
these needs constitute the basic of the good operating of our society .
is - this that he not would not time that the government of the Canada anthologies this request burning who him is submitted by the together of the regions Canadian ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
the challenges are of size in part to because of a increase considerable of the request , who keeps to a sure number of factors , whose the less not is not the d?mographie .
to the during of the next decade , the factors demographic challenging always a serious problem .
the government federal has well responded in the budget of 99 , but I not songerais not a only moment to say to the Senator that he not there has not of great challenges who we waiting .
the field of the health will can - be well extend where the challenges will the more redoutables for the government federal and the provinces to the during of the ten next years .
the Senator Rivest :
the government of the Canada , in more of the other priorities that he can clerical in the use of these surplus , not could - he not commissioned , of a way free and direct , a transfer significant of funds to the governments of the provinces order that they carry do opposite to the requirements extremely pressing of the field of the health ?
you have been Minister of the Affairs Social .
you But very well that without of the funds modified , who not could Oprah that of the government Canadian , you closely F of answer to the needs pressants of the field of the health .
a assistance calibre and substantial of the government Canadian allow to the governments of the provinces of satisfy these needs .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I the have said already , since a year approximately , the government has took of the measures for restore of important are of the funding paid to the provinces .
to my humble notice however , he not enough not of increase the funding .
that equivalent to thrust without constantly a request illimit?e .
I believe that he met abolish the funding because the request continues of increase and that he met also essential the ability of put to the point of the approaches innovative further to the Benefit of the care of health and find of the solutions excelling to this regard .
a example of the commitment of the present government is the new funding substantial of the research in health .
the government has fact evidence of a commitment remarkable .
I have well confidence that he continue of the do to legislation that we exhausting .
the hon. Roch Bolduc :
honourable senators , I not like not continue prolong this debate .
of a share , the government proceeds of the funds in the research medical and , of other share , the next , he announcement the creation of a program for the dystrophie musculaire and , the surlendemain , a other program for a other illness .
the government federal , this doing , define the priorities of the care of health .
this not is not his role .
do that to the backs of the responsibilities of the provinces is unacceptable !
you not 53,000 not convince our people that this solution is acceptable .
the government federal , in amount , if ing?re in the management of the care of health .
he define that such service is the more pressing and not not a other .
this not is not reasonable .
the government federal has of the things more important to do to a level more high .
his role is of redistribute the resources to the country .
he has of great roles to play in the policy international , the policy Monetary , and cetera .
the population not the supportera not .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the Senator has well reason .
the Benefit of the care of health has been and remain without doubt a responsibility provincial .
however , this would a mistake of say that the government federal not has of other role to play that extend of sign a cheque .
in fact , the Act Canadian on the health is probably the legislation legislative the more guiding of all the country in Equity of care of health .
the government federal has a role to play .
he not is not to the first lines of the Benefit of the care , because this role belongs to the provinces , I in putting .
this is why the funding by the government federal of the research and some new initiatives of the kind will useful ; they enable to the provinces of met the challenges on this plan .
the Senator Bolduc :
honourable senators , I have the sense that the officials federal of the Department of the Health if say that the to guys to to Toronto , to Vancouver and to Quebec not familiar not that ; you will their say : where is - this that that press ?
this was fair a app?ritif .
the Finance
the report of the Auditor General - Conformity effectiveness of the planning budget to long term
the hon. Roch Bolduc :
as he the has fact in the past , the Auditor General has said of new to the Parliament that a darkest of planning of two to five years , this is well too short for power hold account of the consequences to long term of the choice budget that we do , including in a situation where the population ageing , with all the impact that that includes .
honourable senators , that not respect not the institution of objectives or the injured of these last .
he if is of know the consequences to long term of the decisions of the government .
even the Committee of the accountability public of the other place has now idea to the need of projections to more long term .
gold , the government continues of say that in we giving of the information to long term , he minerait the importance and the emergency of if attack to the problems imm?diats .
honourable senators , the Leader of the government could - he explain why the Auditor General has wrong when he said that this not is that in songeant to the consequences to more long term that we basis fully in legislation of assessment the emergency of our situation budget ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the planning not has not that a only subject , and different periods of planning suitable to different purposes .
I then say without fear of me wrong that in almost all the departments , the planning to long term door on of the periods of five years , of ten years , even more .
to the purposes of the process budget , the Minister of the Finance has said that this was a approach prudent , but appropriate , that of if happen to a graduate of two years for determine of the requirements budget and of the projections of revenues grievous for a year given .
that not means not say that the government not if interest not to the planning to more long term and that he not the practice not .
the Senator Bolduc :
honourable senators , the attitude of the Auditor General me craft reasonable .
I am of agreed when the Minister said that on a basic of budg?tisation of two years , that can be reasonable .
I can understand that .
the Auditor General said that the government should put to the opposite of the population of the studies to more long term .
you has known that , by example , in the field of the Pension , where you has given of the Pension to the people all of following .
you has given of the Pension to the people pendant25 years then , all of a suddenly , you if is awakened .
Mr. . Paul Martin has examined the question and has found that that not had more of good sense , that he needed increase the premiums of 73p. per of here three years , if this would the bankrupt of this plan .
that not is not wise .
the Auditor General the said , and I am of agreed , that he should we present of the statisques to long term .
the example of the Pension is the more canto example that you can find .
you if is view that this was easy of give of the Pension to the people who not had not contributed .
now , you request to the generation next of pay for these Pension .
and this generation receive probably of the profits who will lower to those of their parents .
he not is not fair that my children me pay a pension then that the their will less when they discuss my age .
even the increase of 73p. per , of here four years , not sufficient not for resolve the problem .
he must look the implications to long term .
the government should if do a duty of apply a such rule .
this is a rule of wisdom for a healthy management .
not important what company the fact .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the Plan of Pension of the Canada fact course the subject of reviews .
he is administered to the time by the government federal and the provinces .
the two levels of government if Meetings all the three years exactly for draw the objectives to long term .
I putting that , in fonctionnant without plan to long term , you risk of hypoth?quer the generations future , who will appel?es to pay for the services whose happiest the generation current .
the worse example that I can you give for illustrate that is extend of a government who piling of huge deficits .
the record of our government is excellent in this field .
hence the worse example who example the comments of the hon. Senator .
fortunately , the present Minister of the Finance and the present government have corrected the situation .
I know that the hon. Senator if pleased of their success .
response research to a question orale
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
I have the response research to a question that the honorables?nateur Stratton has raised the 24 November 99 to the about of the Estimates of capital in the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) and of the possible of open of new celebrating .
the Affairs foreign
the increase of the Estimates of capital in the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) - Position possible of open of new celebrating
( response to the question raised by the hon. Terry Stratton 24 November 99 )
in response to the question who dealt on the addition proposed of 43 875 400 $ to the Authorized of appropriation current of doubling 690 100,000 $ of the Department of the Affairs foreign and of the Trade international ( MAECI ) by the through of the Estimates Main of the Estimates of 99 - 2000 , he must attention that the budget of the capital of the MAECI covers the Estimates not only for the property liabilities , but also for of other term punishment and incorporels .
on the 131 565 100,000 $ proposed , approximately 68 million of $ are planned for the Estimates for property liabilities .
the rest will equal between the maintenance of the system world of telecommunications and the systems computer of management of the information , the Purchase of systems and of equipment of security , the Purchase of vehicle in the missions to the abroad , the business of model and of maintenance of the property and the Purchase of day and sections of ameublement .
in this who respect the bills relating to of the property , the bill realized to Berlin not represents that 26,2 million of this total in 99 - 2000 .
the rest of the funds approved for the funding of the capital of Berlin will spent during the million 2000 - 2001 to 03 - 2004 .
the list of the main Estimates in capital who are corridors to of the bills relating to of the property in 99 - 2000 is introduced in the picture who following .
the levels of Estimates different of those introduced the year last in the Rapports 99 - 2000 on the bills and the priorities of the MAECI for various reasons : expectations for obtain the licences local of construction , difficulties overnment by the entrepreneur to find of the labour - of implement and of the materials and more of time that expected spent to the step of conception of some bills .
major bills of capital
Estimates scheduled for 99 - 2000 ( million $ )
Beijing China ( Achat of a complex diplomatic )
Berlin , Germany ( Construction of a chancellerie )
Berlin , Germany ( Construction of a residence official )
the Cairo , Egypt ( Construction of a chancellerie )
Caracas , Venezuela ( Achat of a chancellerie )
Geneva , Switzerland ( Construction of a chancellerie )
Kingston , Jama?que ( Construction of a chancellerie )
Nairobi , Kenya ( Construction of a chancellerie )
new Delhi , India ( Construction of housing for the staff )
Tokyo , Japan ( Construction of housing for the staff )
Warsaw , Poland ( Agrandissement / renovate of the chancellerie )
Seoul , Korea ( D?m?nagement of the chancellerie )
Order OF orders
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Vodrey , seconded by the hon. Senator Furey , seconded to the Adopted of a Adresse to His Excellency the Gouverneure general in response to the speech that contemporaries has sir during of the openness of the second session of the 30 - sixth Parliament . - (
6e day of the resuming of the debate )
the hon. Norman K . Atkins :
you in arriverez can - be to go?ter so the operating of this place that you join reconsidered your first comments regarding the length of your stay to the Senate .
I have loved the response that the Leader of the government has made to the question that I him have raised yesterday , to know that he essaierait of visit the House Vimy before the resuming of the business of the Senate , after the break of No .
I if delighted of the there participating .
Senator Hays , you have fact many of things in your life public and to the Senate .
he was all to fact natural that you Senate guest to assume the duties of Leader Deputy to this place .
this is became a tradition .
your predecessor has been chairman of the Party Liberal , him also .
your contribution positive to the business of the committees is also well known .
your experience you help can - be to understand that he would wise of consider the study of a more great number of bills of bill in Committee Whole .
personally , I hope that you 53,000 continue of be active to the within of the Committee Senate of the agriculture , including in this period of crisis who Strike the c?r?aliculteurs Canadian .
the senators of this side - side aware the Senator Graham as a Leader effective of the government to the Senate .
he knew that his role was of do in sort that the bills of bill ensure adopted to this place .
however , in the fiscal of his duties , he seemed appreciate the work of the Opposition and recognize his importance .
our role introducing to debate of the bills of bill and to bringing to the attention of the government and of the Canadians the flaws that they complainants .
the Senator Graham has also recognized that the role of the Senate not efficient not to approve automatically the work of the House of the Commons .
he belongs to the Senate of reflect more to the impact of the measures legislation and to the way whose they are followed , and of listen carefully the arguments of those who are in favour of these measures and of those who if there opposed .
even if he we is came to the opportunity of differ of opinion with him , the Senator Graham has always treaty the Opposition with d?f?rence and considered the role of the Senate respectfully .
this was a opportunity single of do of the projection and of say to the Canadians toward what the government seen the Canada if lead to the during of the years to come .
this speech would should establish the reason of be of the government , this that he means do with the power that he holds .
the years Pearson have been caract?ris?es by the commitment to the regard of a regime of care of health universal , our centennial and a new flag , this who has contributed to do know more the Canada to the other country of the world .
the to society fair to and the patriation of the Constitution have dismantling the years Trudeau .
this is during the mandate of Joe Clark as Prime Minister that we we are rapproch?s the each of the other in as that Canadians , that we have learned to better we understand through to his description of the Canada as a to together of communities to .
this is also to the during of these mandates that the Canada if is fresher of the manipulation on capably his economy speaks today today : the agreements of free - Exchange and the reform tax , which makes our exports competitive opposite to our partners commercial .
he worth the worthy of examine the governments that we have always to the Canada to the during of the 50 past years for see to what point the government tien not has no policy and no vision of future .
the Canadians deserve better that a speech of the Throne not appearing no vision .
going more far .
in this speech , the government if autocongratule without restraint for the role that he plays in the economy .
to this about , I want me associate to the words of the Leader of the Opposition to the Senate , the Senator Staunton - Lynch .
in his speech in response to the speech of the Throne , he has given to the government of the lessons of history and of economy on the responsible of the crisis financial that facing the Canada - the Liberal of Trudeau - and on those who have looked the bases on expelling if articulent the solutions - the Conservatives of Mulroney .
for my share , I could predated to the speech that I have sir during of the debate budget in beginning of year .
I have helpfulness the government for have balanced the budget , but I have also underlined that he n?gligeait of many leviers economic .
the Canada not draw not enough of investment foreign , the taxes of all the levels of government are too high , our productivity is if low that she threat our level of life and no objective of reduction of the debt Canadian not has been set .
a sure number of economists concerned that the dollar Canadian falls also lower that 60 cents of here five years .
the pleasant of our motto has resulted any a series of taken of control of businesses Canadian .
that has led the former Prime Minister of the Alberta , Peter Lougheed , to declare :
I me concern of the passivit? of the governments , of the citizens and of the companies to the regard of the number of tip of businesses Canadian important by of the companies U.S. and then , of the loss of taken of decisions to the Canada to the following of the transfer of the seats social of businesses to the States - United .
nothing not is fact , then that the Minister of the Finance continues of build a surplus for the happy .
the speech of the Throne announcement of the cuts of tax , of the cuts that human not has still remarqu?es , who not performance even not to the surplus Surplus in the fund of insurance - employment .
the items of the government on the plan economic , the problems linked to the taxes , to the productivity and to the investment foreign have led Tom De Aquino , the chairman of the Council Canadian of the leaders of businesses , to declare :
in fact , we have to Ottawa a government who not includes not the serious of the situation to which our country fact opposite .
for them , the economy if door well , a number growing of people have a employment , the surplus if investments and the surveys are very supportive to the government .
the people as you and me and well of other who osent ask a change radical and of new ideas are often viewed as of the alarmistes who not leads that their interest staff .
the items of the government in these areas if applaud the more in the framework of the debate on the drain of the drain to the Canada .
the Prime Minister believes that this is simply a myth and I suppose that he think that if you not fact nothing , as in the case of well of other questions , the problem dispara?tra of him - even or you not him ask not of accountability .
honourable senators , this not is not the point of view of the expert who have attended to our caucus of the been to Calgary , in September .
the representatives of the industry , of the sector private , of groups of reflection and of the world university we have fact share of the serious of the question and of the impact negative of this phenomenon , then that the Canadians trying of be competitive on the market world .
well course , a example north of this that the Prime Minister believe be a myth we is given by John Roth , chairman - steering General of Newbridge Networks .
to the number of the main reasons for expelling our best professionals leaving the Canada , he quote the pleasant of the dollar Canadian , the rate of tax marginal the more high to the Canada and the level exaltant of activity commercial to the outside of the Canada .
this is by the through of political financial , rid and economic that a government creates a climate economic encouraging the people to remain to the Canada or to come if there dramatically .
commentant the statements Mr. Roth , the nationalist Canadian Peter C . Mercier has said :
I not believe not that he means say : to says want foutre my compound of the Canada . to
Mr. . Mercier think rather Mr. Roth means say :
to I not have not the choice . to
the lack of vision of the government , his lack of dynamism in the jurisdictional financial and economic , exception made of the measures designed to balance the budget on the walk of the provinces and of the citizens the more poor of the Canada , are to the origin of this problem .
the sacrifices of the government before a reality overwhelmingly not fact that exacerber the problem .
what is the interest of these benefits for the persons who pressing regularly of a situation of work to a situation of well - be social ?
as Marjorie Doyle , St. John St. , Newfoundland - Newfoundland , the has wrote in October :
the speech of the Throne of the week last not if rallies not to me .
his letter described excursions the inadaptation of the promise of the speech of the Throne regarding the future of the Internet to the reality of the life in a port of fishing of Newfoundland - Newfoundland or in the Canada rural .
she said :
the vision of a Canada who fact of the high Technology his railway of challenges seems insufficient , even even exclusive , when she is aired to the time where you see a man d?barquer on the pier his taken of hareng or of calmar to the assistance of a tool simple .
to legislation that the speech of the Throne advance , adding to the glorification of all the things cybern?tiques , that me remind that the gap between the Canada of the class dirigeante and extend where of many Canadians live is in fact very great ...
... and if creuse still ...
he not is not possible that the small province independently of Newfoundland - Newfoundland be the only place where the people and the modes of life are marginalized , if outright suit , by the concept of a Canada who would the king Cyber .
he must well there have not difficulty of Canadians in the regions rural where the space cybern?tique seems p?riph?rique .
the day where the speech of the Throne has been sir the week last , the road the more fr?quent?e of the small province independently of Newfoundland - Newfoundland was the path of land battue Work to the jardins example to the front of the community , of the jardins where the men and the women cultive of the plantes roots , a little as the teamwork their ancestors to the beginning duXIXe century , working often on the even small carr? of land .
the men were to the fishing in their dock , a pi?ge of allure primitive had been opportunity in the ?tang community , and the husband and the wife who Distinguished the forest olds durum .
we not can not forget the roots of this country in the Rush current toward the Technology .
the promise of increase still the Prestation national for children in the year 2002 not means not say great - something for the poor or the recipients social , who g the provinces increase their taxes of many .
to the least , in this party , we have set a group of work on the poverty , co of way very promote by the Senator Cohen and the MP conservatrice of the House of the Commons representative the riding of Shefford , Diane St. - Jacques , in company of the Senator Lavoie - Lavoie .
his Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Atkins , I regret of duty you interrupt , but the 15 minutes who you were allou?es have expired .
want - you ask of the time Supplementary for continue ?
the Senator Atkins :
yes .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Atkins :
I you thank , honourable senators .
their recommendations have looked the first bases of the institution of a system of protection of the income family and of a rate of tax reasonable of the income of the special for the Canadians to income low and average .
I congratulate the Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate of not not if be opposed to the request of the Senator Gustafson who creating the held of a debate Special on the question the 3 November last .
this debate has underlined the suffering related to the crisis of the agriculture therefore that the absence of a strategy national consistent in view of protect and of improve the situation of the fearlessly family .
he not should not be necessary of expect that a crisis if Grits , as the government the has if often fact , for we pay account that the political are d?ficientes or even inexistantes .
as the Senator Andreychuk the has underlined of way if concise to the during of the debate :
the problem , this is that the government federal not includes not that he must do evidence of creativity and trying of find of new solutions to the crisis of the agriculture in the Western .
[ ... [ we are in full crisis .
still a time , the government lack of imagination and if shows F of understand the new problems .
the debate that we have held to the Senate has been very useful , but he not would not should be necessary .
the government had a fortunate in gold of deal of the crisis in the agriculture in the speech of the Throne , and of establish of new direction and of the benchmarks for the institution of political for the protection of the fearlessly family .
all that would could be followed very quickly by the Tabled to the House of the Commons of measures legislation designed to adopt these new initiatives .
however , the speech of the Throne not contained nothing , nothing of the all for the regions agricultural .
that say of the sectors whose the government has spoke in the speech of the Throne ?
in this who has relates to the question military , the speech has began on a lately very bode , detailing our troops as of the soldiers of the peace to the during of the war global and in Korea .
you groups , in the body of the text and under the payments to Position place of the Canada in the world to , the sentence next , who is probably the more fallacieuse never placed in a speech of the Throne :
the government continue also of ensure to this that the Forces Canadian ensure in legislation of support the role of the Canada for contributing to the security in the world and he if efforcera of increase the ability of the Canadians and of the delay of help to ensure the peace and the security in of the country foreign .
that just of a government who has realized our frigates of class World quasiment outlive in annulant the Purchase of helicopters expected by the government precedent and who highlights the life of our soldiers still more in danger in Representative the Purchase of new helicopters .
according him , he should immediately injected to the least 500 million of $ of more .
he not is more acceptable that the Minister of the Defence declare that the forces Armed hand continue to in do more with least .
contrary to this that he said , he not can not dies the budget , because he is too minuscule for be restructured .
in a section entitled : to Reforming Canada' St. Military to , the Colonel to the retirement Michel Drapeau invite the government to revitaliser the milice and the contingency , to reduce the number of broad of half , to mixed the duties of the bureaucracy civil of the Department of the Defence of those of the command military , to eliminate the d?partement of the Affairs public of the Defence , and to eyebrows properly our soldiers .
for my share , I conseillerais to the government Liberal of put in implement the findings of the book white of 1994 on the Defence , that he has him - even released .
to all the least , the government should avoid of speak of continue to eyebrows the forces Armed , then that he not has even not began .
certainly , the speech of the Throne talking of the need of increase the funding of the research and of the development to the Canada .
I hope only that this funding reaches to the research fundamental in the universities , in of the areas that the universities they - same feel important .
I believe that the government must go beyond - beyond of the Fund of the scholarships of the millennium announced by the Minister of the Finance in his budget he there has two years .
I believe that the problem of the debt grew , who affects of the thousands of students to the four across of the country , can be resolved with success .
however , he must for that not only Services the resources necessary , but also do evidence of imagination in the development of a program who not only assistance all the students post , but also the encourage to excel in the studies and encourage those who have left prematurely the school to there return for there parfaire their studies .
I there reiterate to the opportunity of my inquiry to the during of the next weeks .
for paraphrasing Rachna Gilmore , who has received recently the price literary of the Governor General , he is important of if office not only of those who marchent the eyes baiss?s , but also of those who six the stars and if created of dream .
this country deserves a government who has a vision of the future who be source of inspiration for the Canadians to the enter of a new century .
we brush a government who seriously dream .
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. Rose - Marie Losier - Losier :
honourable senators , I me directed to you today today order of you do share of my reactions to the speech of the Throne sir during of the openness of the second session of the 30 - sixth Parliament of the Canada .
my thoughts conservation primarily on three themes : the small boyhood of the Canada , the cong?s parentaux and the security human , and particularly the security of the children in the country in seaway of development .
[ rald [
all of first , I me delighted that the priority key of the government if go toward the small boyhood .
I quote the speech of the Throne :
no commitment that we take today today not will more important for the prosperity and the well - be to long term of the society Canadian that extend of invest our efforts in favour of the very young children .
he responsibility to the government of offer to the parents and to the families who taking care of their children a range of measures and of means who support their efforts .
the parents have greatly need of support and of smooth for do opposite to their responsibility first , who is similar of take care of their children .
the well - be editing of the children includes several components .
in Prime held , a break parental of 52 weeks allow finally to the parents of if office more of their all - grandchildren without duty the serves to the Access of a tierce human .
you agree , honourable senators , that serves the Access of a very young child to a tierce human respectful many of pr?parations and of representations for the great majority of the parents .
I can you say , as experience personal , that when my tireless special to the research is recanted after a break of motherhood of six months , that has been very difficult because that the break of motherhood is of six months and that the most of the garderies quotes the children to a year .
he is very difficult of find of the places in victim for a period of six months .
of elsewhere , the great majority of the parents wish access to more of support who their step of achieve a better balance opposite to the requests exigeantes of the world of the work present .
the first years of life of a child are d?terminantes for his health and his well - be to long term .
honourable senators , the children alive in situation minority to across the Canada deserve a attention particular if we want ensure a development widest for all our children and for their families .
this is why he is very important of measure and of know more specifically the needs of the children and of the families of the communities francophones and acadienne of the Canada .
the recognition of the identity and of the realities of the francophones represents therefore a quibbling majeur for the future of the children and of the young of the communities francophones and acadienne of the Canada .
all the children Canadian have right to the same services and to the same facilit?s of development .
short , the importance that we effectively to the small boyhood today today allow to of the thousands of children of enter their life of adulthood in doing evidence of confidence , of creativity and of determination .
addition the benefits social weaknesses related to the support of the development of the young children , the House of trade of Vancouver there seen of the benefits economic well age .
I quote :
our findings 18.7 that invest in the development of the young children can reduce the problems social , increase the capabilities and produce a good performance economic .
and she in sometimes to the conclusion next :
short , invest in our children step a good policy of interest public .
I congratulate the House of trade of Vancouver of have adopted this Position in conclusion party for the children of the Canada and in defending their interests .
honourable senators , you received surely all of agreed for say , as parents , and as great - parents in the case of some , that the family who ?duque his children and subvient to their needs is the better touchstone of the good development of the children .
the education parentale , the acquisition of the Paralympians and the support to the parents and to the families are essential for improve the conditions of life of the children .
hence why of the programs of development of the young children must be a part basic of the vision of future of the government .
the third and last point of my presentation respect the population and the development .
the concepts of development and of security of the child to the Canada different substantially of this that they represent in the country in development .
a environment favourable to the development human , and more particularly of the child , fact speak two concepts basic : the development human and the security human .
well that separate , the two concepts if internship each .
even if they not are not seldom , together , the security human and the development human view to the double objective of covering of the afraid and of covering of the need .
the freedom of act of the people can be limited by these two fears , and for the members the more poor and the more vulnerable of the society , the poverty and the ins?curit? are related in a circle condemned .
for Koreas this circle , he must of the measures for stimulate the development human through to the access to a employment stable , to the education and to the services social .
the absence of these guarantees of security human represents a barrier beware to the development human without regard to the levels of income .
if the people not have not confidence in the power of the society of the protect , they are little enclins to invest in the future .
for build a world who efficiently many of price to the security human , he must begin by if preoccupied of those who in h?riteront and act for the protect .
the Convention Current to the rights of the child has dismantling a beginning , a way whose the community international could if carry of the responsibility who we responsibility all opposite to our children .
he there has few years , a song popular said :
a child , That you d?croche a dream
then , honourable senators , search - we of dream .
strongly with me the dream that I have for that a day , you can offer to all the children of the planet this that the you offer to our own children and to our grandchildren - children .
( on the motion of the Senator DeWare , to the behalf of the Senator LeBreton , the debate is adjourned . )
bill of bill admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical
second Reading - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Carstairs , seconded by the hon. Senator pin , seconded to the second Reading of the bill of bill S - 2 , Act admissibility the taken of decisions Medical legitimate relatively to the treatment of survival and to the treatment of the pain . - (
the hon. Senator Lavoie - Lavoie )
the hon. Lucie pin :
honourable senators , I rise the speak today today for defend the bill of bill S - 2 who stage the taken of decisions Medical regarding the treatment of survival and the soulagement of the pain .
I congratulate my colleagues who have fact part , he there has already five years , of the Committee Senate Special on the Assisted and the assistance to the suicide .
any their reflection and all their work have been very productive .
he must now do the necessary order that the bill therein S - 2 be effective and that he be adopted without delay .
honourable senators , to a time or the other of our life , he is came to the most of between we of we find to the chevet of a parent or of a friend very patient , in coolest to of terrible suffering , often to few days or few p.m. of their death .
we not wish that a something , and this is that this human subject this that he him rest to live in a comfort relatif , in the peace and the dignity .
unfortunately , he sometimes too often that the comfort and the dignity not ensure not to the Boteler - you .
having been infirmi?re , I known the challenges faced are face the professionals of the health in Equity of care palliative .
we have all been trained for cure .
in fact , all the system medical is built around of the concept of care curatifs .
we not have not learned to help the unevenly and , for many of between we , the death is synonyme of failure .
the professionals that we are are very aware of their responsibility before the bill , of sort that the prudence we yes of hold the death to across of gave .
on the plan staff , can - be that the death we terrifie and that we have of the difficulty to do opposite to the overblown of the patients and of their families and to accept the sense of vacuum that the death stared .
short , he there as and more of grounds complex who we choose to maintain the life to all price , even when that if fact against the showing of the patient and to the backs of his dignity and of his peace .
I me delighted of the bill of bill S - 2 that I support with enthusiasm , specifically for the reason that he intended to find of the solutions to the many reasons complex ?voqu?es by the providers of care of health for if acharner to save of the lives to all price .
the things not are not clear in Equity of responsibility criminal .
the bill of bill S - 2 has for subject of clarify the Instruments of bill existing and of we ensure that the wishes of the patients will respected by the system of care of health and that the coping will protected by the bill and the standards Medical necessary for better hold account of the wishes of the patients .
more specifically , the bill of bill S - 2 states the conditions highlight on the plan legal the interruption of the treatment of survival and of the treatment of the pain investigator of abr?ger the life .
in a Prime time , the bill of bill S - 2 evidence in a wording clear and easy to understand that he is juridiquement acceptable that the soignant given to the patient of the pharmacare in sharply evidence of inevitable his suffering physical , even if these sharply continuously of in abr?ger the life .
the bill of bill limit that the decision of administering these pharmacare is acceptable to the eyes of the bill only in the case where the intention is of inevitable the suffering physical , but not not in the case where the intention is of give the death .
the bill of bill S - 2 establishes a distinction clear in service of the intention : he if is of relieve the suffering physical and not of resulting the death .
this type of distinction of after the intention is to the basic even of our right p?nal .
in our right , he there has without constantly of the distinctions to do .
I not think not that the bill of bill S - 2 opens the door to the suicide attended .
I believe by against that he clarifie the things and protects the professionals of the health , their allowing of ensure to the comfort and to the dignity of their patients .
second , the bill of bill S - 2 specific that he not there has not of responsibility criminal when a soignant practice the forbearance or the interruption of a treatment of survival pursuing that the patient , then that he was in possession of his means , gave presented a request unfortunate in this sense .
honourable senators , all adulthood widest of spirit to the Canada has the right of take of the decisions regarding his life , little important if to the eyes of the other , they seem good or bad .
each of between we has the freedom of decide of the treatment medical that he or she means or not means not , therefore that of the time and of the way of the interrupt .
Mr. . the Justice John Sopinka of the Court Supreme has expressed very briefly this right in the judgment that he has realized in the case Rodriguez .
impose a treatment medical to a human who the refuses is a act of violence and the way way has recognized the right of require the interruption or the not - Administration of a treatment medical who prolongerait the life .
there still , the bill of bill S - 2 not fact that clarify the circumstances in expelling the decisions Medical are legal .
the rights and the principles in because are currently abinet by our system judicial .
the bill therein S - 2 specific then who can present a request of forbearance or of interruption of a treatment medical , to the behalf of a patient who not is not in legislation of take this decision .
honourable senators , he not enough not of clarify the context legal of the decisions Medical , far of there .
in third held , the bill of bill S - 2 Order the Minister of the Health and his counterparts provincial to establish of the lines guidelines national in Equity of care palliative , of forbearance and of interruption of treatment of survival .
these lines guidelines are essential to the institution of a practice medical acceptable in this field .
our society is difficulty to the comfortable before the death .
we in have afraid .
we not go not in speak openly and take conscience of his latitude , of his sense .
why in would - he words for the persons who soignent ?
why if expect to this that these persons persons of the skills inn?es before the death , simply of the fact of their profession ?
the bill of bill S - 2 demands also that the professionals of the health receive a better training in care palliative , learn how and when inevitable the pain and interrupt a treatment of survival .
they must learn to apprivoiser the difficulties and the overblown that a illness seeks raises .
the bill of bill S - 2 heritage the contexts legal and social of these decisions Medical .
I think that the bill of bill S - 2 can do many for that the wishes and the needs of the patients ensure respected in the system of health order that their comfort and their dignity ensure protected , for that the preserve of the life rest the objective of the professionals of the health but that you confer also to the patients and to their families the right of decide this who their agreeable the better when the death eve .
honourable senators , each family to the Canada is damaged by this question .
we know all and any someone a who has seen a poised barriers unnecessarily and whose the desire not has not been respected because that the soignant knew difficulty the care palliative or concern of be continued in justice .
the bill of bill S - 2 will welcomed Right as by the professionals of the health that by the families Canadian .
I congratulate the Senator Carstairs and I wish of good deliberations to the Committee who discutera of this question .
the hon. M. DeWare :
honourable senators , we not have not the intention of delay the study of the bill of bill , but I believe know that the Senator Lavoie - Lavoie will among we the week next .
I believe that we must him let the opportunity of speak of this question .
I will therefore adjourn the debate in his behalf .
( on the motion of the Senator DeWare , to the behalf of the Senator Lavoie - Lavoie , the debate is adjourned . )
bill of bill on the perquisitions and the saisies international
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
[ 1540 [
this bill of bill had already been introduced by my hon. colleague , the Senator Beaudoin , the 3 March last , during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
he is remained recorded to the Paper in September last before of have received the step of the second Reading .
honourable senators , in 1982 , our country if is fresher of a tool powerful for protect the Canadians of the interventions abusive of the state in their life privacy .
he if is of the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms .
the section 32 of this last provides that :
1 ) Position presented charter if applies :
has ) to the Parliament and to the government of the Canada for all the areas relevant of the Parliament there including those who originated the territory of the Yukon and the Territories of the North - Western ;
b ) to the Parliament and to the government of each province , for all the areas relevant of this Parliament .
the section 8 of this Charter provides that each Canadian has right to the protection against the fide , the perquisitions or the saisies abusive .
the bill of bill S - 4 intended primarily to clarify a question important of right in this who has relates to the application of the section 8 . Consequently , the section 3 of the bill of bill S - 4 specific , and I quote , that :
before of present a request of perquisition or of cases to the outside of the Canada to a organization or authority foreign or international to the purposes of a inquiry Current to a offence , the authority promote presented a request to a Justice or a Justice of peace for that be decided a order Authorize the request .
this clause has for purpose of protect the individuals , to the Canada , against a perquisition or a cases abusive who would held to the outside of the Canada .
when a citizen will the subject of a inquiry explicate to a pr?sum?e offence to a bill federal , the prosecutor General councillors need obtain the Authorized pre of a Justice , as this is the case during of a inquiry to the Canada .
that if happen before the sending of a letter of request of assistance to the authorities of a other country for ask the cases of documents who if find in this country .
honourable senators , this bill of bill if seen of the findings of the Court Supreme of the Canada in the v. Schreiber .
memories the facts .
the intim? , who is citizen Canadian , r?sidait to the Canada therefore that in Europe , and he knowledge of the accountability to the Swiss Banking Corporation to Zurich .
the government suisse has agreed the letter of request and a order has been decided Authorize the cases of documents and issues regarding the accountability of the intim? .
no mandate of perquisition or no other Authorized judicial not had pr?alablement been obtained to the Canada before the Presented of the letter of request .
the Court federal and the Court of appeal federal had answered by the affirmative to this question .
the because was scope in appeal before the Court Supreme of the Canada .
the 28 May 1998 , the Justice in Leader of the more senior court of the country , Antonio Lamer , therefore that the Justice Claire Conformity happy - Dub? have answered by the negative to the question of right raised by Karl H . Schreiber .
according the Justice in Leader , a order Requesting the cases of documents banking , made by the Department of the Justice of the Canada and sent to the authorities Swiss , not knowing not enter in stake the application of the clause of the Charter .
the letter of request of assistance not dealt therefore not injured to the section 8 of the Charter and to the rights of Schreiber .
the Justice Lamer wrote to the subsection 24 of his decision , and I quote :
the human who diminish of the property or of the documents in a state abroad short the risk that a delving or perquisition be instituted pursuant to the laws of this state .
she not can not to expectation if expect to to this that that not if Grits not , if the laws of the state in question embark clear of such measures .
the Justice Conformity Heureux - Dub? , speaking to the behalf of the majority of the court , was also of notice that the Charter not if limited not to a government abroad .
in the resources , the actions of the authorities Swiss not were therefore not subject to the provisions various section 8 . De more , she not if limited not to the letter of request of assistance , because the Canada not has not consulted to the cases or to the perquisition .
in a opinion dissidente , the judges Frank Iacobucci and Charles D . Gonthier have agreed that the government suisse not was not of the all subject to the respect of the provisions of the Charter .
by against , they have however esteemed Mr. Schreiber knowledge of the expectations reasonable in Equity of life privacy .
therefore , the authorities Canadian number should obtain a mandate before of send the letter of request to the authorities Swiss .
the minority has therefore concluded that the section 8 of the Charter if limited in the case of Schreiber .
in consequential , the cases of the documents banking demand?e by the Department of the Justice without Authorized pre has brought injured to the right Mr. Schreiber to the respect of his life privacy .
honourable senators , several of between you have issued of the reserves further to the scope of the provisions of the former bill of bill S - 24 .
some believe that he imposera the provisions of the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms in Equity of respect of the right to the life privacy to of other country during of request of assistance to the during of investigations criminal .
I wish to you assure immediately .
this bill of bill not has no scope extraterritorial .
for trying of you convince of this state of fact , we must of first return to the principles who guident the application of the section 8 of the Charter during of investigations criminal .
since 1982 , the Court Supreme of the Canada has sp?cifi? in several rulings the principles who must define the scope of the section 8 and the way of the apply excursions .
Dansl' v. R . Q Schreiber , the Justice Frank Iacobucci Compensating that the text of the section 8 funds very little of appearance on the scope and the subject of the interests that he intended to protect .
in 1984 , in the v. Hunterc. SouthamInc. , the Justice Brian Dickson had defined for the first time the subject of the section 8 . It if 13 of the protection granted to the persons against the intrusions knew of the state in their life privacy .
by against , the scope of this right was limited by the uniqueness reasonable of the Awaiting that has a human in Equity of respect of his life privacy in the circumstances of a case given .
the Justice Dickson has explained therefore this approach in Hunter to the pages 159 and 160 , and I quote :
the guarantee of protection against the fide , the perquisitions and the saisies abusive not intended that a Awaiting reasonable .
this control of the right guaranteed by the section 8 , that she be stated under the form negative , this is - to - say as a protection against the fide , the perquisitions and the saisies to abusive to , or under the form positive as the right of if expect to expectation to to the protection of the life privacy , evidence that he must appreciate if , in a situation given , the right of the public of not not be importun? by the government must CPAs the not to the right of the government of if immiscer in the life privacy of the special order of enable his purposes and , including , of ensure the application of the bill .
in consequential , since the v. Hunter the concept of to Awaiting reasonable in Equity of life privacy to is the principle structurel allowing of determine if the section 8 if applies and protects the rights of a human in a situation given .
in a second time , the Court Supreme has interpretation in several decisions the section 8 as having for effect of protect the persons , and not of the site or of the things .
this principle marked a change important in the subject of the right to the life privacy .
this interpretation of the section 8 not was limited or by the concept of ownership or by the right formed in Equity of intrusion .
in 1993 , that has prompting the Court Supreme to conclude , in the v. R . Q Plant , that a human has a Awaiting reasonable in Equity of life privacy relatively to a together of information biographiques of Order staff whose lags of other persons to his about .
the Justice John Sopinka , if really for the majority , has said follows to the page 293 of the v. , and I quote :
[ ... [ for that the protection constitutional if applies , the information before must be of nature personal and confidentielle .
met given the values under - underlying of dignity , of integrity and of self that he implementation , he is normal that the section 8 of the Charter protects a together of information biographiques of Order staff that the special could , in a society free and democratic , front Establishing and exempt to the knowledge of the state .
he could including if act of information seconded to promoting of the details friends on the way of life and the choice personal of the individual .
he seems therefore clear , according the court , that the subject Main of the right to the life privacy is by therefore the effect of a delving , of a perquisition or of a cases abusive on the individual .
the held where this legislation is ex?cut?e is without importance .
since the v. Hunter , the Court Supreme has considered that the section 8 had for effect of protect , before the fact , the rights relating to the life privacy .
he not must not be used for valider or condemn , after the fact , the intrusions of the state in the life privacy of a human .
in this sense , the court has given to the section 8 a interpretation based on his principle , of manner to this that he step more that a simple ban against the fide , the perquisitions or the saisies abusive .
as the has explained the Justice Gerard Position Forest in 1998 in the v. R . Q Dyment , if the right to the life privacy of the individual must be sufficient , we not can we allow of not do argue this right that after that he gave been violated .
that is inherent to the concept of protection against the fide , the perquisitions and the saisies abusive .
honourable senators , as you the know , each individual efficiently a great importance to his life privacy and to the means of the protect .
the uniqueness of the concept of life privacy is such that , soon that you there has brought injured , you can rarely the restore in his entirety .
by therefore , for that the section 8 protects effectively the Awaiting reasonable of a human in Equity of respect of his life privacy , he must produce his effects before the enforcement of the delving , of the perquisition or of the cases , and before the disclosure of the information .
without this protection , he not would that very little of value in as that guarantee of the right to the life privacy if he not if limited that for suspending , after the fact , of the information obtained of a manner abusive .
this interpretation of the section 8 has took a form concrete in the prerequisite Current to the Authorized judicial pre that has stated the Justice Dickson in the v. Hunter .
in this v. , he Compensating that the court party , in a Prime time , weigh his decision between the right of the human categorically to the respect of his life privacy and extend of the interest of the state to the regard of the application of the bill .
by the following , he was necessary of determine the time where this Authorized should be granted by a court .
follows had for purpose of prevent the fide and the perquisitions knew before that they not if produced .
that not could be accomplished that by a system of Authorized pre before the cases and not by the through of a validation shipowners .
in consequential , according the more senior court of the country , the section 8 between then in stake .
therefore , the right of the individual to the respect of his life privacy and the interest of the state in Equity of application of the bill are soupes?s by the application of the process of Authorized judicial pre , before the enforcement of the delving , of the perquisition or of the cases contemplated .
honourable senators , the courts have also cern? the concept of uniqueness abusive to the sense of the section 8 . In effect , for that a delving , a perquisition or a cases be qualifi?e of to reasonable to and not not to of abusive to , she must , according the Court Supreme of the Canada in the v. Hunter of 1984 :
[ ... [ have been pr?alablement Cabinet by a human neutre and impartiale who must act of way judicial , according of the grounds reasonable and probable , of simple insinuations not met not Commission , and be instituted of manner reasonable and not abusive .
the Justice Antonio Lamer has enumerated , in 1987 , in the v. R . Q Collins , three other conditions who must be respected to the sense of the bill for that a delving or perquisition instituted without mandate not be not considered to abusive to to the sense of the section 8 :
[ ... [ she must be Cabinet by the bill ; the bill enabling not must not she - even be abusive ; and the delving not must not have been instituted of a manner abusive .
therefore , a delving , perquisition or cases d?clar?e abusive able very instalments be valid as to reasonable to to the sense of the section 1 of the Charter .
until to now , the courts have fact a distinction between the saisies in the framework of Affairs criminal and the saisies in the context of Affairs administrative .
the criterion of the case Hunter statement before if applies rigoureusement to the saisies in the framework of Affairs criminal .
the Court Supreme has also indicated , in the v. McKinlay Concepts of 1990 , that more the injured of the right to the life privacy is great , more the guarantees of the v. Hunter must be respected .
in the case Schreiber , the judges Gonthier and Iacobucci have expressed a opinion dissidente , as I the have mentioned more earlier , those - side met of notice that the cases of accountability banking to the outside of the Canada , without Authorized judicial pre , seem the right to the protection of the life privacy .
in coming to this conclusion , the Justice Iacobucci if is seconded on the interpretation broad and Liberal of the section 8 of the Charter that I have explained more earlier .
for determine if the letter of request of assistance was contrary to the provisions of the section 8 , the Justice has used the guidelines contained in the v. Plant by the Justice Sopinka .
they had for purpose of determine if a human in because had , relatively to some information , a Awaiting reasonable in Equity of life privacy him giving right to the protection of the section 8 . to the page 293 of this v. , he has wrote , and I quote :
the review of factors such the nature of the information , similar of the relations between the part divulguant the information and the part in r?clamant the confidentiality , the place where they have been collected , the conditions in expelling they have been obtained and the serious of the crime doing the subject of the inquiry , allows of pond?rer the rights social to the protection of the dignity , of the integrity and of the self of the human and the application effective of the bill .
several principles can be d?gag?s of this interpretation of the application of the section 8 . De first , the authorities hires of the application of the bill must be sensibles to the right of a human to the respect of his life privacy , relatively to a together of information biographiques of Order staff the regarding .
the existence of a Awaiting reasonable in Equity of life privacy d?clenche the application of the guarantees ensuing by the section 8 . deployed this Awaiting there and that similar - side is danger by a intrusion predicted by the government , the authorities hires of the application of the bill are fairest of obtain a Authorized judicial before of act .
model the framework contextuel machinery by the Justice Sopinka in the v. Plant , the Justice Iacobucci has concluded that the intim? had indeed a such Awaiting to the regard of his documents banking Swiss .
these last Europe of the details personal on the human categorically , including his situation financial and of the choice friends regarding his way of life .
second , you could described the reports who exist between the bank and his client of relationship of confidence who , following the v. Plant , give held to a more great Awaiting in Equity of life privacy relatively to the information in because .
finally , if the information Treaty were easily availability without intrusion or without the competition of a third , he there would then least of opportunity that he there gave violation of the life privacy of the human concern?e .
in the resources , the information have should be obtained by intrusion in the bank suisse and with the competition of a third , this who underlies to indication that the intim? had a Awaiting reasonable in Equity of life privacy relatively to these information .
of more , as the Justice Iacobucci the explain to the subsection 56 of the v. Schreiber , and I quote :
the procedure of perquisition and of cases has been divestiture by the government of the Canada by the Presented of a request official to the government of the Switzerland , seen the absence of treaty between the two country .
the request has been introduced in the framework of a inquiry Canadian who , can - you assume , would manfully , to the Canada , to of the prosecutions raisers to a Canadian a offence to the Code criminal Canadian .
the right to the life privacy , such that he has been interpretation in under of the Charter , protects the persons and not of the site .
the effect on the individual of a perquisition and of the cases of documents banking is the even , that the perquisition and the cases shifted held to the Canada or in Switzerland .
the intim? has a Awaiting reasonable in Equity of life privacy relatively to the information banking , little important the place where if find the accountability .
he is all to fact reasonable , to my notice , that the intim? if attende to this that the authorities Canadian not carry directing the assistance of the authorities Swiss for obtain his documents banking in Switzerland without obtain a some form of Authorized judicial pre to the Canada .
the Justice had therefore answered by the affirmative to the question of Schreiber and he had recommended of the disciplining to the laws Canadian for correct this impr?cision .
this is exactly this that the bill of bill S - 4 intended to accomplish .
of elsewhere , the Justice Wetston of the Court federal and the Justice Linden of the Court of appeal federal are upon to the same findings that the judges dissidents of the Court Supreme in the v. Schreiber .
honourable senators , he is clear that each case is particular .
this is why the section 4 of the bill of bill S - 4 provides that the Justice department , who can hear the request former parte , must see that she is consistent to the standards determined by the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms .
if such is the case , he can pay a order Authorize that the approach be made , therefore that the demands the section 5 of the bill of bill .
honourable senators , before the Presented of the other provisions of my bill of bill , I like address the question of his application extraterritorial .
in the v. Schreiber , the Justice in Leader of the Court Supreme has fact reference to the application extraterritorial of the Charter .
for this do , he has used the rulings Terry and Harrer , who affirmaient clear that the proposal that the Charter not has not of application to the outside of the Canada .
these two Affairs underline on the conduct of authorities U.S. who , seize to the States - United , had coast of the statements of suspects of a manner who , well that consistent to the Bill of Zinn American , were exceeded with the Charter .
in the two causes , the Court Supreme has concluded that the Charter not could govern the actions obviously by of the authorities foreign in a country abroad .
this conclusion is privilege with the section 32 of the Charter , who CRTC the application of this last to beyond Parliament and to the government of the Canada to and to to the Parliament and to the government of each province to .
she is also privilege , as the has pointed the Justice Beverley McLachlin in the v. Terry , with the principle of the courtesy international .
according the Justice , he was unrealistic of if expect to this that the authorities foreign familiar and observent the laws of the Canada .
honourable senators , in the case Schreiber , the situation was different .
already , the Justice Wetston of the Court federal had rejected the argument following which the fact of answer affirmativement to the question raised by the intim? revert to apply the Charter extraterritorialement .
he not has never left in question the laws on the respect of the right to the life privacy of the Switzerland or of the government of this country during of the cases of the documents banking .
the conduct misjudgment in the resources is the preparedness and the sending of the letter of request by of the officers Canadian .
these officers were clear subject to the right Canadian , there including to the Charter , to the within of the Canada and , in the most of the case , to the outside of the Canada .
they were far Treaty , to the section 32 of the Charter , in as that representatives of the power executive of the to government of the Canada to .
who more is , because that they were Canadians , he not there had no reason of hold account of the courtesy international .
you could therefore if expect to this that they familiar the right Canadian , there including the Constitution .
he not was not unreasonable of require of them that they the trap .
that is particularly true of the officers who agissaient to the behalf of the prosecutor General and who , of fact , could have of the responsibilities additional fully of the nature particular of this reminder .
I wish to mention that the author of the letter not has not fact approve the content of the letter by the a of his senior .
yet , as I the mentionnais more earlier , this letter Compensating clear that the request of assistance had for purpose of continue a inquiry criminal .
she could give held to of the prosecutions to the Canada against a citizen Canadian .
in his judgment , the Justice Wetston had concluded to according 944 , and I quote :
[ ... [ if the intim? can be continued to the Canada , I not see not why he not should not have right to the benefits accessoires of the Charter
in consequential , he has concluded that the intim? had a Awaiting reasonable in Equity of life privacy .
after have learned this conclusion and have dependent the nature of the information who had been saisies , he has concluded that in under of the section 8 , you insisted the allocations of a Authorized pre deposited of a Incumbent of duties judicial impartial before that the letter of request can be exp?di?e .
he is therefore clear that the Charter if applies of way general to of such letters of request .
some of between you will tent?s of say that the letter of request not is plans schemes to a review based on the section 8 . Vous utiliserez probably the example of the procedure that must follow a province Canadian for directing the assistance of a other province in view of the enforcement of a delving , perquisition or cases .
currently , the authorities who arise of such requests of assistance not have not to obtain of Authorized judicial pre pursuant to the section 8 before of send their request .
he not if applies not as that the request not has not been received , time where he must obtain a mandate Authorize the delving , the perquisition or the cases .
to this argument , I Albertan follows .
in the context Canadian , the authorities who arise the request know that similar - side will the subject of a review judicial before the enforcement of the delving , perquisition or cases proposed .
in the context of the case Schreiber , to the contrary , you not has not informed the court that the authorities Swiss number examined the touchstone of the request of delving , of perquisition , or of cases introduced by a government abroad .
we not know not not more what form 7.6 a such review .
however , you has mentioned that the you if hallway expectation to this that the authorities Swiss limited following to the request .
as the has mentioned the Justice Iacobucci , to the subsection 57 of the v. Schreiber , and I quote :
he is someone little formaliste of conclude that the procedure implemented to the Canada for examine the requests of assistance presented by a province to a other allows of answer completely to the question raised in the resources .
the application of a approach formaliste or legalistic is contrary to the jurisprudence Current to the Charter , who recognizes since long that the rights guaranteed by this text must be interpr?t?s generously and in service of the subject described .
he is more appropriate of apply to the question a approach based on of the principles .
this result is consistent to the interpretation broad and Liberal constantly implemented by our Court to the section 8 in view of to guarantee to the citizen the right of be sufficient against the afflicted of the government to his expectations reasonable in Equity of life privacy to .
not not apply the section 8 to the letter of request could have for effect of do let outright to between two chaises to the right of the intim? to the respect of his life privacy .
I say that because , account held of the situation international in stake here , nothing not we guarantees that the principle of the Authorized judicial pre has been observed and , in consequential , the a of the pierres angulaires of the analysis based on the section 8 has been omise .
[ 1610 [
the Canadians are protected to the Canada by the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms .
honourable senators , during of the debate on the former faults bill S - 24 , several of between you substantially raised the question of the costs important related to the application of this legislation .
I believe , to the light of the requests of the years pensioners , that this process of Authorized judicial pre able be properly managed and that he not eventually not of costs important for the government federal .
according the figures supplied by the Department of the Justice of the Canada in the statement under oath who Adieu the memory of the prosecutor General of the Canada in the case Schreiber , the Canada has articulate 79 requests in 1992,80 requests in 1993 , 137 requests in 1994 , 109 requests in 1995 and doubling requests in 1996 .
we not have not the figures of the years 1997 and 1998 , but I hope that the representatives of the Department of the Justice able we the provide to time during of the study of this bill of bill in Committee .
I wish to mention that the bill of bill S - 24 not door not injured to the treaties of assistance step who tie the Canada to some States foreign in the framework of investigations administrative or criminal .
the Canada has concluded of the treaties of this type avec16 country .
I like now address the question of the definitions that the you find to the section 2 of the bill of bill S - 24 .
a officer public abroad is a human who holds a mandate legislative , administrative or judicial of a state abroad or who discriminates a service public to the within of a state abroad .
this not is not me who have created this definition .
she if seen of similar portion to the section 2 of the Act on the corruption of officers public foreign , who has received the Assent Royal the 10 December 1998 .
the authority promote categorically by this bill is the prosecutor General of the Canada , the prosecutor General of a province and any human or authority loaded , to the Canada , of the investigations Impediment to the offences to the laws federal and to their court .
this definition if seen of similar portion in the Act on the corruption of officers public foreign clause lines .
the offences simple by this bill of bill are those having relates to the laws federal .
this bill of bill is therefore CRTC to the laws and to the regulations federal .
the along of the Justice department varies according the province .
the expression to Justice of peace to 1 to similar categorically by the section 2 of the Code criminal .
finally , this bill of bill not has not of effect r?troactif .
in conclusion , honourable senators , the bill of bill S - 4 will in sort that the section 8 need be commencing when he can help to accepting the repetition of a conduct unconstitutional by of the officers Canadian , even if the conduct of these officers brings a country abroad to contribute his assistance .
the provisions of the bill of bill expect in sort that the Canada not able not impose his own standards proc?durales to of other States .
by against , he ups to this that the right to a Awaiting reasonable in Equity of life privacy be sufficient in case of delving or perquisition made to the Canada or to the abroad to the request of officers Canadian .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Senator Nolin we has given a treaty legal very fouill? on this who step , according him , the subject of the bill of bill S - 4 .
I must say that he me met a sure time for well understand this that he has said , but I chair a question to him ask all of following .
in listening his intervention , he me has seemed that he said that the Constitution provides already a protection rather expeditiously .
the Senator would - he the please of summarized the reasons who justifying the Adopted of the bill of bill S - 4 ?
I know well that he has onerous a sure time and well of the procedures for in arrive there , but , of after his comments , the interpretation that the courts have given of the section 8 assure a protection command complete of the right to the life privacy and also a protection against the prosecutions abusive , of the least if the you in Justice of after the case Schreiber and few other causes .
the Senator Nolin :
the question affects directly the essential .
I hope that we able refer the bill of bill to a Committee , because this is specifically this point that we must study .
this is for this reason that I have quoted of many causes heard by the Court Supreme .
in any honesty , the court contradicted the 18 past years of decisions regarding the section 8 of the Charter .
he has onerous many of time for establish the various aspects of the protection in under of the section 8 . Position court has also took great care of determine that only the authorities Canadian would covered to the Charter .
however , the judgment dissident of the two judges will more in the sense of this that I move to the Parliament , met given their analysis of the section 8 .
this is a question complex , because she require that the Parliament submit if the protection portion in the section 8 door on the individual or on the held where is perp?tr? the act .
I am of notice , as the two judges dissidents in the case Schreiber , that this is on the individual because that the Charter protects the individual , not the held where is perp?tr? the act .
he there has had , with the years , of many decisions and a important jurisprudence on the question to the Court Supreme , and the case Schreiber is , to my humble notice , contradictoire .
I move that we corrigions that .
in the case Schreiber , for streamline a case complicated , the government suisse is only a officer .
all the other parties conducts in this together of facts are Canadian .
the request has been made by the authorities Canadian regarding a individual Canadian for a future court criminal to the Canada .
I not know not if I amending a response expeditiously to your question .
I am sure that you flavour better this situation complex when you seen read my speech .
I hope that the Senate will of agreed with me for that this question be referred to the Committee .
( on the motion of the Senator Cools , the debate is adjourned . )
privileges , Rules and procedure
third report of the Committee - Withdrawn of the section
the Order of the day Order :
study of the third report of the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure ( question of privilege of the Senator Kinsella ) , presented to the Term 24 November 99 . - ( Conformity hon. Senator Austin , C ) .
the hon. Jack Austin :
the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure has examined this question of privilege to his first sitting following the referred by the Senate .
in his third report , the Committee said that he has sought to be in legislation of hold a sitting to camera closed if he becomes necessary of examine properly the question of privilege .
the Clerk of the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure if is spoken Mr. Chopra and him has asked two questions .
he him has asked , of first , if he commendably that the Committee heard his testimony to camera closed or in public , then , if his union and him - even meddling a objection to this that the question of privilege raised by the Senator Kinsella be consideration to the Committee in even time that his grief is heard by the Commission of the relations of work in the service public .
Mr. . Chopra has answered that he believer know that the Senate not is not a court who following the rules normal of the evidence .
he believes that , in as that approach policy , the sitting of the Committee Senate must be public .
he not seen no objection to this that the two reviews shifted held in even time .
he declare to the Clerk that he believe that a review to camera closed not is to the advantage of human and that he not has nothing to cover .
he wish only that the review to the Committee be fair , public and enough thorough for resolve the question .
in more of answer to the two questions , he has also informed that his lawyer the accompagnerait to any meeting portion by the Committee Standing , and that he concern that the Department could if acharner against him by the following .
honourable senators , as the question in dispute efficient to know if the Committee Standing should sit to camera closed , and that the witness in question not seen no disadvantage to participate to a hearing met , I request that the recommendation of hold a hearing to camera closed , who found in the third report , be withdrawn and that this debate be considered as concluded .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , the leave is - she granted of withdraw this section ?
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I am surprised of hear the chairman of the Committee say that that if fact after notice and consultation of a witness .
I not believe not that he concise to a witness of decide how a Committee should proceed and in what conditions .
to my notice , he works to the Committee of decide and to the witness of accept the conditions .
he me seems that the contrary if be product .
I am very surprised of hear the chairman of the Committee ask that the recommendation of hold the meeting to camera closed be withdrawn - I know why she has been introduced - after consultation of a witness .
this is to the Committee that he works of decide how he should proceed , and the witnesses must if plier to his decision , what that she be .
I me request if the lawyers should participating the witnesses ; but this is a question school .
the witness fixed the guideline of his appearance , including to the about of know if the hearing would public or to camera closed .
this decision should return to the Committee .
the Senator Austin :
honourable senators , me granted - you to consider that as a question and to trying of there answer ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Austin :
honourable senators , I am of notice that he is perfectly appropriate that the Committee particulars in consideration the risk referred if exposerait a witness if he there had a question of privilege .
well course , the Committee takes the decision .
however , I think that he would imminently equitable that the Committee du account of the risk referred could if airing a witness and that he him convey know how he committed proceed .
I think that he would also equitable that the Committee Standing give to the witness the possible of him express his point of view .
honourable senators , the witness has the intention of appear and I believe that he 3 before the Committee Standing Tuesday next .
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , I like ask a question to the hon. Senator Austin .
when he has presented the facts , the Senator has said that the witness has said to the Clerk that he concern that the Department could to if acharner against him by the following to .
that means to if acharner against him by the following to in speaking of the consequences for his employment if he appear before a Committee Senate ?
the Senator Austin :
honourable senators , I rapportais simply this that the witness had said to the Clerk of the Committee .
I not think not that I better answer to your question , since all this that I could say official of a assumption .
I not diminish not of other information on the sense Mr. Chopra wanted give to this expression .
the Senator Oliver :
the hon. Senator concern - he that he be victim of shy and that he if outlining to of serious impact ?
the Senator Austin :
I thank the hon. Senator of me help to answer to the Senator Staunton - Lynch .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
he me seems that you would could the consult for know if , to his notice , he probably of proceed to camera closed .
he has known this who if recovered only when the motion has been proposed in this chamber .
if a witness said that you could if acharner against him , he me seems that we should obtain a little more of information on this deal to the held of we settle of a ou? - say regarding this who has been said to the Clerk of the Committee and of the waves explanation of his chairman .
if the hearing if keeps , we regards before we a witness who if offensive threatened , or who if outlining to of the threats , or who lead for his employment because that he testimony before a Committee Senate .
is - this the situation who we expected Tuesday next ?
the Senator Austin :
honourable senators , we see well this who if happens Tuesday .
the account realized refl?tera the comments of the witness .
I not believe not that you commuting what that this be to ask therefore of the questions hypoth?tiques .
well course , I have discussed with the Senator Kinsella of his question of privilege .
the colleagues of the hon. Senator Staunton - Lynch are members of the Committee , there including the deputy - chairman , the Senator Grimard .
they are to the aware of each legislation taken here and support the third report debated to the Committee .
if I not can not consult the colleagues of the hon. Senator , and that I must consult someone a of other , I like that you me the notwithstanding .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I thank the chairman of the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure for the work of his Committee to this regard .
we have had the opportunity of discuss briefly he there has few days .
fortunately , he not if is not of a case where a Committee wants of hold a sitting to camera closed for hear a hon. Senator who means share of the information relevant to the work of the Committee .
words , the Senator if retrouverait in the situation difficult where , all in met against the held of sittings to camera closed , he should or d?sirerait there attend .
he if is of a case rather hypothetical , but the events described by the Senator Austin me expressing .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave has been granted .
pleasure - he to the Senate of withdraw this section ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the section is withdrawn . )
the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations
inquiry - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the inquiry of the hon. Senator Wilson , calling the attention of the Senate on the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations . - (
the hon. Senator Austin , C )
the hon. Jack Austin :
honourable senators , the Wednesday 24 November 99 , the hon. Senator Statutes Wilson has drew the attention of the Senate on the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations .
his comments reposaient on his vast experience of the Affairs religious .
our hon. colleague has acted as mod?rateur deposited of the church united of the Canada .
his intervention knowing following to a trip staff that the hon. Senator has fact in as that member of the delegation of the Council Canadian of the churches , who has fact a stay in China of the 23 October to the 5 November .
many of Canadians , here even to the Senate and across to the Canada , if interested of almost to the questions related to the rights of the human , particularly to the way whose these values , who are criticism according our own concept of the relations human and of the stability social , are respected in China .
this looked on the China is inexorable for the simple reason that the population of this country represents approximately reach per of the population World .
the systems of values and the practices of a if great form of the population of the world are essential to the institution of a society human peaceful and Progressive to the wide World .
you has of the evidence clear who indicate that the China means promote the respect of the rights of the human to the within of the society Chinese order of covering the creativity of the people Chinese in the modernization economic and social of the China .
the report of the Senator Wilson is , to my notice , fair , balanced and exactly in this who has relates to the freedom of religion in China .
in fact , the invitation lanc?e to the Council Canadian of the churches for that he if non in China and studying the freedom of religion is , in itself , a expression of the showing of the China of Services a discussion met and a dialogue positive to the about of the freedom of religion as a of the aspects basic of the rights of the human .
as in any society , you must draw of the limits to the freedom order of guarantee that the freedom she - even can be pr?serv?e and Rich .
how find this balance is a optimist paradox .
a Justice British of the century last has had to judge a because where the d?fendeur had cri? to the gun in a theatre bond? .
he not there had not of fire , but the people who were in the Room have paniqu? and many have been judgment in if ruant toward the Pentagon .
the Defence has all?gu? the right to the freedom of speak , the right of say not important what not important where without regard to the consequences .
in his judgment , the Justice has concluded that human not could if serve of the freedom of speak for say deliberately or of way rarity a mensonge who risk of resulting of the wrong to of other persons of a way that a man reasonable could include .
the idea that have the Chinese of the limits to the freedom of religion is based on of the values cultural and of the experiences historic different of the ourselves .
the size of the China and his vuln?rabilit? to the dissension Economy , to the invasion by of the foreign and to well of other factors engendrent the pragmatism of the authority propelled and of the authority Bankers for do r?gner the peace and the Order .
the traditions of responsibility collective exist since of the centuries and , in fact , have been dictate for ensure the security and the survival of the unity social , that this be the family , the village , the coincidental or the province .
the control of the behaviour of the individuals was perceived as essential to the security and to the well - be of the unity .
we reconna?trions this practice in the maxime of John Stewart Mill , who described the policy social British as designed to the more great happiness for the more great number to .
course , in the reality , the autoritarisme if Adieu often of this defaults human that is the attitude arbitrary , this attitude who not includes no legislation of protection against the inequity , the immoralit? and the not - respect of the practices and of the standards substandard to the Ethics .
well that the China be far of be the country the more corrompu of the world , the corruption there is still a problem serious in a society who just of / the transition of a economy governed if rending of the model marxiste to a economy of market Socialist , this is - to - say a economy of market to the sense where we the differ , but a economy still governed of manner strategic and r?glement?e to the average of plans quinquennaux and of measures of monitoring of the performance .
if he not fact no doubt that the regime policy of the China if seen of the autoritarisme , he is also true that the Chinese if accommodent well of their freedoms economic and Social and that they not have never been also well since of the centuries .
the government of the China not employ can - be not the same practices that the government of the Canada for governance , but he keeps really to improve the life of his population to the held of if settle of enrich the group to the power , as that if fact in of other country .
the Canada if is committed on several fronts with the China , this who demonstrates well his commitment growing to the respect of the rights of the human in the sense individualiste where we the differ .
we have of the groups of study abiding on the practice legal and judicial who sells the focus on of the values as the burden of the evidence , the right of keep the silence , the independence of the power judicial and the role of a system of counsel legal independent .
as the honourable senators the know , in 1998 , the Parliament of the Canada has developed on foot a association legislative States - Chinese of together with the Congress national of the people .
two meetings of parliamentarians have had held , a in China , in November 1998 , to which have attended 12 parliamentarians Canadian , there including of the senators , and a other when of the members important of the Congress national of the people have visited Ottawa , Toronto , Winnipeg and Victoria for exchange of the opinions with of the legislators federal and provincial .
among the subjects broader , he there has had the practice legislative , the role of our Opposition official , the limits cut to the government in the process legislative , the rules of procedure and the rest .
the Chinese are very involved to we understand .
of our side , we are involved to know how they per?oivent the idea that a debate peaceful not led not to a instability social and policy , but increasing the stability .
the honourable senators not know can - be not that the Committee Joint Canada - China of the rights of the human has been created by the Minister of the Affairs foreign , Lloyd Axworthy , in April 1997 .
this Committee intended to maintain a dialogue Standing on the rights of the human between the two country in rigour all particularly the focus on the Covenant international relatif to the rights civilians and political and the Covenant international relatif to the rights economic , social and Cultural , that the two country have sign?s but who not have not still been ratifi?s by the Congress national of the people .
among the subjects precise broader by the Committee Joint , he there has the rights of the women and of the children , the rights of the charged , the new rules of procedure criminal , the cooperation bilateral on the rights of the human , the cooperation international on the rights of the human , the rights of the minorities and of the Peoples aboriginal , and the freedom of religion .
the recent visit in China of the Senator Wilson , chairman of the delegation Canadian on the freedoms religious , if is made under the auspices of the Committee Joint .
he me must also clarify that the Committee Joint is constantly active and working without tirelessly .
the members Canadian members of the Committee if are prominent on the ground in the province of the Yunnan , where the you find a great number of minorities ethnic , and to the Tibet , where the debate if continues on the question of the freedom of religion .
the members Chinese members of the Committee have further to them visited Ottawa , Winnipeg and Whitehorse .
the question of Falun Gong has been desire during of a sitting of the Committee Joint to Beijing the 8 et9 November 99 . Conformity 4 November , the question has been raised of new by the Senator Wilson and his delegation when they have met of the senior Allison to the offices of the Department of the Affairs foreign of China , to Beijing .
that met said , he important of understand that he there a myriad of questions related to the practices larger in Equity of rights of the human who attireront our attention in the months to come .
the extensive reforms economic in during in China are to the origin of unrest social and political , the million of Chinese sacrifi?s on the altar of the efficiency economic not having not access to a system of security social similar to extend that we have to the Canada .
the levels social and economic lower are particularly indign?s by the corruption in China .
the behaviour arbitrary of the simple officials , including in the front - country , is a because of dissension .
you note of the agitation policy to the Tibet and in the Xinjiang where is established a minority turque and musulmane .
the government Chinese continue of give the priority to the stability rather that to the reforms structurelles of the system policy and legal .
short , since 20 years , of huge progress have been earned to the chapter of the rights of the human in China , and I believe that this trend if papers .
the statehood of the China to the Organization World of the trade Bennett a important stimulus .
the Canada and the China have signed their agreement on the statehood of the China to the WTO to Toronto , Friday last , the 26 November , to the opportunity of the meeting Annual of quelque250 members of the Canada - China Business Rehabilitation .
the WTO is a system of rules trade asking a process of regulation of the differences .
the China has clear idea to the principle of the rule of the right .
in the years to come , she approfondira his understanding and his implementation in practice of this principle .
the hon. Lowell Murray :
I like ask a question to the hon. Senator .
this that he has said on the fact that the Chinese if pertinent toward a economy of market , but with a leadership very centralis?e , me has interested .
the next time that my colleague will in China for a meeting of the group legislative States - Chinese , if chargera he of put in Access the Chinese in their expliquant that the Canada has tried the even formula in the years 80 , with of the initiatives such that the AEIE and the Program Energy national , and that that if is valve a disaster total ?
the Senator Austin :
I will deal the question of the Senator Murray as a argument .
( on the motion of the Senator Di Nino , the debate is adjourned . )
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
notice of motion Authorize Authorized to the Committee of the Finance national to study the Budgets of the Estimates - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Lowell Murray , pursuant to the notice 1 December 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national be authorized to study , order of in do report , the Estimates set in the Estimates of the Estimates for the fiscal financial if ending the 31 March 2000 ; and
that the Committee presented his report to the more later 31 March 2000 .
motion of amendment
the hon. Fernand Robichaud :
honourable senators , I like propose a amendment to this motion following to a meeting of the Committee of the fisheries , yesterday night .
this amendment has been agreed to the unanimously by all the members of the Committee :
that the motion be amended , by adding , after the words , to the Estimates of the Estimates for the fiscal financial if ending the 31 March 2000 to , of this who following :
to to the exception of the appropriation 1 , 5 and 10 of the Fisheries and Oceans ;
that the Committee Senate Standing of the fisheries be authorized to study the Estimates set of the Fisheries and Oceans CTAISB in the Estimates of the Estimates for the fiscal if ending the 31 March 2000 ; and
that the Committee presented his report to the more later the 31 March 2000 .
the hon. Lowell Murray :
this question has engagement a very subject discussion to our Committee of the Finance national the other day .
to our notice , even if the appropriation of the government took in a sense overall are removed to the Committee of the Finance national , nothing not prevent a other Committee Standing of the Senate of if do refer the appropriation of the Department who interested this Committee .
the members of the Committee of the Finance national if objectent to this that his mandate more overall be dilu? of a way or of a other .
I me spend of adjourn the debate for allow to my colleagues of there participate .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have a question of the Senator Murray regarding the state of the Estimates Main of the Estimates before the prorogation .
he me seems that the positions budg?taies of the Department of the Fisheries have been studied by the Committee of the fisheries to the during of the last session .
I me request if the Senator Murray could explain this change apparent of Position .
I understand that the Speaker has changed , but why this change of Position between the last session and the presented session , particularly in words of this that was the Committee of the fisheries and of his review of the budget of the Estimates of the Department of the Fisheries ?
the Committee wanted hear the evidence of the officials of the Department and of other on a question who the concern particularly .
of more , I not think not that this is the first time that a part of the budget of the Estimates of a Department be substantive by a Committee particular .
in the other House , this is certainly therefore that they critically for the Budgets of the Estimates , if I not me read .
I points the manner whose we staffs the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) , for which some appropriation have been removed to the committees abiding in reason of the practices of the other House .
we have referred the appropriation having relates to the languages official and to the Library of the Parliament to the committees abiding competent .
I appr?cierais a response to this question .
the Senator Murray :
honourable senators , I date of there answer .
I have been chairman of this Committee during a year or two he there has already a sure time , and I have reprinted the Speaker to the during of this session .
the used to the Senate means that you refer the Estimates Main of the Estimates and the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates to the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national .
since few years , because that of other committees Standing have liked examine the forecasts budget for the departments whose they if roles , we have decided of withdraw the forecasts budget of these departments counsel of the mandate of the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national .
I have before my colleagues of this question to the Committee the other day and they if are contrary to this practice .
they had two grounds , if I not me read , and I can you say that of the senators exp?riment?s as the senators Cools , Bolduc and Doody were all to fact against this practice .
their first reason , this is that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national is the Committee responsible of study the forecasts budget and he agreeable therefore of refer these forecasts globalement to our Committee .
that said , they argue that nothing not prevent a other Committee Standing of obtain the mandate of the Senate of if focus on the forecasts budget for a Department in particular .
their second ground was that , if we granted for prior that any study by a other Committee Standing of the forecasts budget of the Department whose he if nat must if do to the backs of the mandate of the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national , then this not would not possible .
a time my motion agreed , even with several amendments , the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry , by example , not could not / a study of the forecasts budget of the Department of the Agriculture .
I think therefore that we not should not accept that a Committee Standing be occurs in what that this be of study in depth the forecasts budget of a Department in particular of the only fact that the forecasts budget have been renvoy?es globalement to the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national .
that could be different if we find take of the measures for this who is of approve the forecasts budget including .
as the hon. Senator the knows , this not is not the case .
we do report on the forecasts budget with our points of view and our recommendations , but we not are not called to approve these forecasts budget in voting .
the Senator Robichaud :
honourable senators , I like explain the reasons of the amendment that I move to the behalf of the chairman of the Committee and of the members of the Committee of the fisheries .
when the Senator Murray has proposed the adjournment of the debate on the motion , I not me am not rose since the Senator Hays the has fact .
but if I then , honourable senators , I like you say that the Committee not means not create of precedent .
during of the first session of the last Parliament , the Committee of the fisheries had received a Order of referred .
you you rappellerez that a motion had been accepted to this effect .
this is of elsewhere this that we have fact , and the Minister has met the Committee to three occasions .
he would in the interest of the Senate that this Committee if circumstances on these esteemed and questionne the Minister in the purpose of know how he highlights all these programs in application .
in this report presented the year last , the seventeenth recommendation stipulait that the esteemed of the Estimates of the Department of the Fisheries and of the Oceans ensure r?f?r?s to the Committee of the fisheries .
this report has been adopted the 16 June to the unanimously by this House .
this is therefore on this report and on this motion , who have been adopted , that if basic the Committee for continue the study of the budget of the Estimates of the Department of the Fisheries and of the Oceans .
I you assure that he not is mention in the intention of the Committee of the fisheries of empi?ter on the mandate of a other Committee .
I believe firmly and sincerely that our role would rather of you help , since if you have to consider the Budgets of all the departments , you not seen certainly not the time of do testify each of the ministers , their officials or counsel .
the Committee has a little more the time for study the budget since he if is of a only Department .
we the have fact the year last .
we we are well acquitt?s of this responsibility in acclaim the Minister .
in showing our report therefore that a recommendation accepted to the unanimously , we want all simply continue in the even vein .
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I like understand exactly this who if proceeded here .
more earlier , the Senator Murray has said that he wanted adjourn the debate and speak more later .
are - we in full debate or well the Senator Murray if furthered he to propose finally the adjournment ?
his Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Cools , we are currently before of the motion of amendment of the hon. Senator Robichaud .
the Senator Murray :
honourable senators , I me appr?tais to propose the adjournment of the debate , but soon that I have seen that of other senators wanted continue , I me am sitting well course for that the debate can if continue .
the Senator Cools :
I think therefore that I better add few words to the debate .
he me seems that few questions if pose to we .
you could the geographic in two Each , the great and the small .
the great question , as the has if well said the Senator Murray , this is the mandate and the powers of the Committee Standing Senate of the Finance national regarding the review of the budget of the Estimates , therefore that the right that has this Committee the right of receive the entirety of this budget for his review .
I believe that this that the Senator Robichaud written in big , this is the right or the power of a Committee of ask a mandate of the Senate for study some appropriation who the interested in the budget of the Estimates .
we seek today today to the restore .
the 4 March 99 , by following of the debate held the eve , this is - to - say the 3 March , the Senator Carstairs has proposed :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national be authorized to study , order of in do report , the Estimates set in the Estimates of the Estimates for the fiscal financial if ending the 31 March 2000 , to the exception of the appropriation 1 , 5 and 10 of Fisheries and Oceans , of the credit 10 of the Parliament and of the credit 25 of the Council private .
the Senator Robichaud wish in fact r?activer this mandate .
if the you works to the debate who has had held the 3 March , you seen well that the senators Stewart and Comeau had indeed presented this request .
we must resolve this question .
to the obviously , this is the a or the other .
a practice of the House of the Commons is subrepticement on the point of if favouring to the Senate .
well that I seaway not of disadvantage to this that , in some case , of the appropriation ensure submitted to the review of different committees , I not wish not that that trading a practice Senate standard and that each time that we are before of the budget of the Estimates , that the study of these appropriation be undertaken to the committees .
that met said , I forward the response of the Senator Comeau .
hence the question that we must wishes .
for the immediate , however , he if is of know if the Committee of the Senator Robichaud , the Committee Senate if interesting to Fisheries and Oceans , can be indeed authorized to examine these appropriation .
we able resolve the other question certified .
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
the mandates of the Committee are limpides .
the only Committee that the Rules allows to study the budget of the Estimates of a Department is the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national .
he not is question of no other Committee in this Rules .
however , the Rules said that the committees can study of the questions in General .
you suppose that , of the point of the government , a study general of the fisheries should clearly englober the study of the budget of the Estimates .
except all the respect that I you must , he should can - be clarification this question and pay a decision to this regard .
that risk of we resulting of the problems .
we have certainly had of the problems , the week last , when we have tried of refer a bill of bill to two committees squeeze .
we have determined that this not was not the good way of do .
he met can - be clarify the Rules .
of fact , Your Hon. , you pays decide of refer the question to the Committee of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure , if you pr?f?rez not not pay this decision you - even .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I am all to fact of agreed with the comments of the Senator Carstairs .
I like add that Conformity section 86 evidence clear that this is to the Committee Senate of the Finance national of study the accountability national and the Finance public .
regarding the Committee Senate of the fisheries , the Rules said :
[ ... [ on Order of the Senate , the bills of bill , messages , Petitions , interpellations , documents and other Contents regarding the fisheries in General .
this is proprement the mandate of this Committee .
frankly , this is the role of the Committee of the Finance national of study globalement the accountability financial of the country .
he is all natural that of the committees little a interest for some departments having of the programs .
also , he is logical of study the budget of this Department for know if the programs in question conforming or not the purpose of the bill regarding the Department in question .
he is relevant for the Committee of the fisheries of present a motion order of receive the Order of the Senate for proceed to a study , if similar - side includes in even time of the elements financial regarding this Department .
the mandate delivered by the Rules to the Committee of the Finance national is completely different .
in this who respect the studies stipulates a interest national , he there has always a question financial , and he would important of not not ban to the committees the possible of the study .
his Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Murray , you have already took the speak .
have - you the intention of propose your motion and of adjourn the debate ?
the Senator Murray :
your Hon. , if you are prepared to pay a decision or to say that you missed take the question in advisement , keep - we there .
his Hon. the Speaker :
I like , if you the let , do a comment .
the practice has been of refer the Estimates of the Estimates to some committees .
I believe that we the have already fact to the during of this session in the case of the languages official .
the budget of the Library of the Parliament has also been referred to a Committee .
when I was member of committees , he plaques often , if I me recall well , that a Committee who wanted see his mandate expanded request that you him refer the budget of the Estimates .
that him funds any prevail of examine this that he wanted in the Department , without other referred of the share of the Senate .
this not is can - be not a good practice , but I know that you there has had Order by the past .
the senators can in this case appeal this that they want to the about of the Department .
the practice current allows only to the committees of examine the questions who their are renvoy?es .
the way of proceed is a question that only the Senate can resolve .
however , he there a precedent .
the Senator Carstairs :
your Hon. , we could can - be resolve this question of the way next : we could ask to the Senator Robichaud of withdraw his motion of amendment ; we could then adopt the motion designed to refer the budget of the Estimates to the Committee of the Finance national ; then we could ask the leave of return to the motions , this who step to the Senator Robichaud of propose that the budget of the Estimates of Fisheries and Oceans be examined by the Committee of the fisheries .
this doing , we not affaiblirions not the mandate of the Committee national of the Finance , but we acquiesce to the Committee of the fisheries the power of study the budget of the Estimates of Fisheries and Oceans .
I not know not if this is there a way of if equally of the dilemma , but this could well in be a .
the Senator Murray :
honourable senators , I not see not why we not could not act of the sort .
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , I will look a small of Guarantee in the twofold .
the Committee of the Affairs foreign has also a interest in this question and I move the adjournment of the debate .
( on the motion of the Senator Corbin , the debate is adjourned . )
Finance national
Authorized to the Committee of according his deliberations by of the means electronic
the hon. Lowell Murray , pursuant to the notice of the 1 December 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national be authorized to allow the meaning of his deliberations public by the media of information Electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
( the motion is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee of Services of the staff
the hon. Lowell Murray , pursuant to the notice du1er December 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national be authorized to clerical the services of counsel legal , of staff technical , of employees of office and of other persons to the need , for help the Committee to examine the bills of bill , the substance of these last and the forecasts who him have been d?f?r?es .
( the motion is agreed . )
adjournment
leave having been granted of return to the Notice of motion of the government :
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate if adjourns today today , this be to Monday next , the 6 December 99 , to 16 p.m. .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate if adjourned to the Monday 6 December 99 , to 16 p.m. . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 16
the Monday 6 December 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
statements ' '
the Day national of comm?moration
the tenth anniversary of the tragedy of the school polytechnique
the Nova - Nova
the four - ninety - second anniversary of the explosion of Halifax
statistics Canada
the data of census - Conformity origin ethnic to Canadian to - Conformity effect on the opportunities of marketing
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
Tabled of the report of the Committee on the part 1
Tabled of the report of the Committee on the parties 2 to 5
transport and Communications
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to allow the Electronic of his deliberations by the media of information electronic
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to study the state of the system of health
the rights of the human and the conflict multiethniques
notice of inquiry
the data of the census
Presented of Petitions
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Defence national
the Timor oriental - Conformity state of the helicopters Sea King
the justice
the possible of amend the Code criminal relatively to the harassment criminal - Conformity influence of the bill of bill S - 6
the transport
the regulatory of a requires monopoly in the sector of the transportation Air of travellers - Position policy government
the v. of the operations of the company air InterCanadien - Conformity service to the small communities
the regulatory of a requires monopoly in the sector of the transportation Air of the travellers - Position policy government
the trade international
the failure of the discussions to the Organization World of the trade - Changes grants agricultural of the States members - Conformity assistance to the farmers Canadian .
response research to a question orale
the health
the regulatory of the products of ?quarrissage - Position policy of the government
the business of the Senate
Order to the Rules - Ruling of the Speaker
Order OF orders
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading
referred to the Committee
motion Authorize blundering to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology of scinder the bill of bill in two - Adjourned of the debate
the Act on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Report of the Committee - Adjourned of the debate
the Union Monetary European
the report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign on the study - Stands of the debate
the SENATE
the Monday 6 December 99
the sitting is met to 16 p.m. , the Speaker met to the Chair .
prayers .
the Day national of comm?moration
the tenth anniversary of the tragedy of the school polytechnique
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , in me skill here today today , I was very sad to the thinking that he there has ten years already , 14 young women ?tudiantes of the school polytechnique of the University of Montreal have been driving by a young cop arm? to the during of a after - afternoon well plain .
honourable colleagues , I am particularly sad to the thinking that despite the seriousness and the disgust that this tragedy has occur , the vast publicity who in has been made and the education of the public to this about , the violence against the women and the children continues of grow to the country and elsewhere to the world .
to the least 51p. per of all the women Canadian of more of 16 years have fact the experience of to the least a incident of this that the Code criminal define as of the violence physical or sexual , and the abuse purchase represent almost de10p. per of all the crimes of violence to the country .
we have progress? to the during of the ten past years , through to good number of advocates adversaries , of the two sides of the Senate , and I think particularly to of the women as her the Senator Sheila Finestone , former - Minister of the Condition hauls .
we have also fact of the progress through to a number of more in more great of colleagues and of friends masculins who if are incurred to support the fight against the violence .
we have amended the laws .
the campaigns of education if continue and immunities profit of this day national of comm?moration .
however , honourable senators , I believe that we not have not still succeeded to reduce of way serious the intolerance , the poverty , the lack of believe of itself and of understanding human who serve of home of incubation to the violence .
they have been selected because that this was of the women and , fact still more disruptive home him , because that he the saw as of the f?ministes .
to the over of the years , I have seconded of the women commeSuzanne Hamelin - Edward , the even of a of the young victims , Anne - Marie ; Heidi Rathjen , ?tudiante and friend of good number of the daughters driving ; and Wendy Cukier , who has contributed to the implementation on foot of the Coalition for the control of the weapons .
of many colleagues of the House filter of all the parties have worked to this file important .
this was a enormous croisade public whose the success if mesurera in last analysis when the attitudes changeront and that the statistics discuss r?gress? .
he there will of the progress when the cellule Bankers to the within of our society and the system who the support find a way of inculquer to the children of the values harm on the kindness and the generosity and not on a extension of War and of violence human and on the acquiescement muet according which the difficulty who is fact behind of the doors closes not must not preoccupied a country .
I like say to Suzanne Hamelin - Edward and to all the other members of the families who have a daughter or a sister whose we comm?morons today today the remember that we zero well on the seaway of the success in ?voquant the memory of the their .
we not can there arrive that in finding the resources , the practices and the alliances between men and women of our society who enable of reduce the haine , the frustration and the fear .
honourable senators , we are many too lents to we in office .
we must certainly to the memory of the 14 young daughters who sending in peace to Montreal since 1989 and to the thousands of other victims of our society of encouraging the effort Special who allow of accomplish this work soon now .
the hon. Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators , I rise today today to the opportunity of the Day national of comm?moration and of action against the violence made to the women .
this is today today the tenth anniversary of the killing of Montreal .
the 6 December 99 has been a time essential in the history of the Canada .
this prosecutors carnage who has lasted 20 minutes is considered as the worse killing known committed in a only day and he has been the day the more dark of our history .
this crime of haine has drew the attention on the victims of the violence governed against the women in as that such , this who if numbers .
the killing has shown to the women and to the men that the violence against the women is a ?nigme well real and threatening to the within of a society who if enorgueillit of be civilis?e and hills .
the Canadians not are more in legislation of argue that of the crimes of haine of this kind not if produced that home our neighbours of the south .
unfortunately , the violence against the women continues of be a reality to the Canada .
of the ?pouses , of the mothers , of the daughters , of the kindred and of the profound are breached , agress?es and assassin?es all the days .
this is also a fact that the authors of these crimes are generally of the men .
this are of the maris , of the spouse , of the neighbours and of the best friends .
the status social or the situation economic important little .
the men and the women must if rise against this situation disgraceful .
these young women who had any their life to live illustrate many better that that .
today today , we must not only we remind of they and of the other victims of violence , but also we Services to new to put a term to this terrible scourge .
the 6 December 99 deserves a reflection national on a outbreak who tragedy still our society .
in all the country , of the ceremonies have held for honour the 14 young women who have seen therefore their life ?court?e .
not forget that this is our responsibility to all in the society of eliminate all the types of violence across .
honourable senators , the violence is a problem of society referred we must all we attack , that he if abhorrent of the violence racist , of the violence Bankers , of the violence made to the children , of the violence against the women and against the members of minorities ethnic or the gais and lesbiennes .
a new phenomenon is wished : the violence in the during of school .
she is very widespread to the hour current and she is totally unacceptable in a society civil .
this is a serious problem that all the Canadians must contributing to eliminate .
the hon. Shirley Maheu :
honourable senators , I wishes take the speak today today for highlight the sad and famous tenth anniversary of the tragedy of the school polytechnique of Montreal .
we we souviendrons that the 6 December 1989,14 young women have lost the life to the hands of a man who not had that a purpose : killing of the women .
his act of haine has offence all the Canadians and has changed the way whose many of between we meddling the violence against the women .
this is for this reason that each year since 1991 , we we memories of this tragedy .
this is also for this reason that the 6 December has been appropriately as the Day national of comm?moration and of action against the violence governed against the women .
this killing we has fact take conscience that several delay were victims of violence and that a such situation was unacceptable .
of many measures have been taken order of refute this problem , but he rest still many to do .
I wishes also say to the parents and friends of Barbara Daigneault , Natalie Croteau , H?l?ne Colgan , Sonia Pelletier , Anne - Marie Lemay , celebrating St. - Arnault , Genevi?ve Bergeron , Maud Haviernick , Mich?le Richard , celebrating Turcotte , Maryse Leclair , Anne - Marie Edward , Maryse Lagani?re and Barbara Marie Klueznick Widajewicz that those - side not will never studiously and that we upon the means necessary for that of such events not if occur more .
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
he not is not sufficient of we remember of these women .
we must also work for we ensure that a such tragedy not can never if replicating .
they had forgotten .
they have said that this kind of something not could if produce to the Canada , and yet , this kind of something is came to the Canada .
the life is - she better to the Canada that she not the was he there has ten years ?
and particularly , the life is - she better for the women , who were the target during of this attack ?
this that we know with certainty , this is that the number of women who doing of the studies of marvel has increased of way soaring , and this is a something positive .
we know that the police of Montreal has reviewed his procedures of intervention and that that has prompting the police in of other city of the country to farewell the their .
the 6 December , of the ceremonies have held across in our country , not only to Montreal , but also in my city , Winnipeg , therefore that in of other cities of the Canada of the Western , of the East and of the Atlantic .
of the talks of action are organized order of eliminate the violence made to the women .
he there has a Campagne of the Ruban white , and I am very pleased of see that of many senators to the House arborent today today a boots white .
all that is extremely important .
honourable senators , as many of between you the know , the year last , the to Prairie depended Patron to has been created for fund the centre to R?soudre to , whose the seat is to the Manitoba .
hence a example of the results positive who should offs of a announcement as similar - side .
the hon. rald - A .
honourable senators , we comm?morons today today a anniversary tragic and sad .
in effect , the 6 December 1989 , a man , Hamelin L?pine , assassinait 14 women .
he the has driving because that they were of the women .
the school polytechnique , to Montreal , has been the theatre of this tragedy devastating .
yesterday , a ratio commemorative has been exposed to the memory of the victims .
this tragedy d?fie the entendement .
we must continue our reflection on the causes deep of this violence .
this is why we must do all this who is possible for try of the prevent , in beginning by do of the Screening deposited of the persons who arise of the unrest seriously of behaviour .
each level of government , each in his unequivocal , must speak .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , today today Gallery the tenth anniversary of the death of the 14 women assassin?es to the school polytechnique of Montreal , the 6 December 1989 .
I know that I me getting the door - speak of all the senators when I states that we not forget not this tragedy and that we compatissons with the families and the friends of these women , and with all the other persons who have been marqu?es by this tragedy .
this sad anniversary must we give to reflect .
I like you remind the comments held by the hon. Royce Frith le1er February 1990 , and rate in the Hansard of this day - there , when he has drew the attention of the Senate on the violence made to the women in the society Canadian .
we continue to purposeful for the Elimination of the violence made to the women .
I applaud to the efforts of several groups who have high the conscience overall and who have worked for obtain of the changes .
I applaud to the efforts of my friends parliamentarians who have worked in view of eliminate the violence made to the women by the Adopted of the Act on the control of the weapons to gun , the Elimination of the Defence of intoxication volunteered in the framework of the crimes violent , the strengthening of the provisions of the Code criminal Impediment to the Offenders to risk high and to well of other ways .
the Senator Frith had reason of if ask if he not if 13 not of a act haphazard isolated , but rather of the symptoms of a problem social more deep .
the opening of the names des14 women to the statue of the ratio of the 6 December 1989 to Montreal yesterday achieved the importance of the question .
the letters grav?es in the steel and the cornerstone are con?ues of such way that he must do a effort for d?chiffrer the names .
this not is not accidentel .
the ratio has been therefore thought for that the names of these women if day in our conscience and that their history not be never overlooked .
to this step of our history , I you invite , honourable senators , to reflect to the events of the 6 December 1989 and to do this that you can for that we news and , in the legislation where we not the have not , that we we efforcions of have a society where Sidney the respect and the harmony between the men and the women .
the hon. Marisa Ferretti Ferretti :
honourable senators , met of Montreal , you can understand how the remember of this event fulfilling my soul of sadness .
the 6 December remain grav? in the memory of the Canadians since this is in this day that we comm?morons together , in the more great sadness , the death tragic of 14 young women who have lost the life to the following of a act of violence nonsense .
to the opportunity of the tenth anniversary of the tragedy of the school polytechnique of Montreal , I you invite not only to condemn the violence , of where that she come , what that be his origin , I you urge also to reflect on the causes of a act also Tisserant who has as secou? our society Canadian and Quebec .
I am appropriate that the 14 victims of the school polytechnique , whose we love today today the memory , we inviteraient to lead of the actions more arrive who doing change the during of the things .
to payments of example , we must stop of we quereller to comments of the Act on the control of the weapons to gun , because the fusil Mini - 14 used he there has 10 years not is always not banned by the bill .
this weapon to gun not will can - be not d?clar?e ill?gale before the 1 January 03 .
we not can not bring to the life the 14 victims of the school polytechnique .
the worse inequity , if we there r?fl?chissons well , is similar Warsaw by those who if believe abandoned by the society .
in memory of all the victims of actions criminals , seek to find a solution to the causes of the poverty , seek to inevitable the pain and the worthy , who are the more often the enemies sources of the violence .
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , he there has ten years today today , little after 17 p.m. , a young wife tremblait stand in the salon of the students of the school polytechnique of Montreal , approval before she the seat of a chaise bris?e in preface of coastline while that retentissaient the minuses of fusil more far in the corridor .
by the following , Ms Rathjen has fact someone something of remarkable .
lord and nerveuse before a myriad , she if is however adjourned few weeks more later before the Congress Canadian of the students in genius for present a petition order of clamour a bill prevented to the civilians of stature of the weapons of assaut as those who had been used against his profound .
following this that she has said :
I have spoke to the parents of the victims .
they boat to this that human not giving this who is came to their daughters and they want desperately that someone something of good ressorte of all that - someone something who equitably our society more confident .
after have obtained his diploma , she has agreed a employment in genius to Bell Canada , but she the has left six months more later for struggle to full time in favour of the control of the weapons to gun .
with Wendy Cukier , she has based the Coalition for the control of the weapons to gun and the rest , as you said , this is of the history - history to which has also participated the Senate .
of many changes have furore of the work of Mmes Rathjen and Cukier - well course , a bill on the control of the weapons to gun .
today today , then that we memories this loss of lives tragic to Montreal , he is timely of pay tribute to the survivante who has fact a difference .
the Nova - Nova
the four - ninety - second anniversary of the explosion of Halifax
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , this is in effect a day sad for the Canada .
I like do echo to the comments who have been made to the about of the tragedy who if is produced to Montreal , he there has ten years .
I draw also the attention of the Senate on a other tragedy very sad who if is produced to this date - side .
today today Gallery the four - ninety - second anniversary of the explosion of Halifax .
even if this explosion not seemed not directly be linked to the War , this is because that you had need of equipment of War that you has brought to the port of Halifax of the products who have changed tragiquement the life of a very great number of our fellow , this day - there .
the facts surrounding the explosion are well known .
the ship belge Imo and the ship French Fusiliers Blanc , who Concepts of the Turkey , are wars in collision in the port .
the bridge of the Fusiliers Blanc was responsible of f?ts thin who contenaient of the benzol , a Equity extremely inflammable who , when m?l?e to of the devices , form a blend terrible .
of the fire have stay to board of the Fusiliers Blanc and the crew has forsaken the ship .
of the men of crew of the HMCS Niobe and of the NSM Highflyer have tried in draining of regaining the fire .
ninety and a minutes more later , little after 9 p.m. of the morning , the buy of 2 750 tonnes of devices of the Fusiliers Blanc has took gun , entra?nant the worse explosion caused by the man in any the history .
the d?flagration has been heard until in the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward , and the ships who were in sea have revived the movement of the waves .
the old part North of Halifax and of Dartmouth has been unconscionable by a explosion of a magnitude quasi nuclear .
in the houses ras?es , the cuisini?res and the boilers have enflamm? this that he former of the structures d?labr?es , and of the fire teamwork heated in any the city .
the storm glaciale who has followed has been still worse for the without - homeless and the survivors h?b?t?s .
on a population urbanized of 50 100,000 persons , more of 1 slightly are 116 and 9 100,000 have been fails .
someone 13 500 vessels have been ras?s and 6 100,000 persons are demeur?es without homeless .
you if remind still this tragedy incredible in our province .
a comm?moration very appropriate if is d?roul?e to the rise of the sun , this morning , to Halifax .
to the time where we we unissons for remind to our remember the women who have lost the life of way if tragic to Montreal , to this even date , I request to the honourable senators of if remind also the loss tragic of the men , of the women and of the children in the explosion of Halifax .
statistics Canada
the data of census - Conformity origin ethnic to Canadian to - Conformity effect on the opportunities of marketing
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , on a about completely different and many more l?ger , I have learned recently of the Opposition and of the period of the questions to read the newspapers of the morning many more carefully .
this that I have discovered he there has a week me seen a statement rather that a question , and a statement of indignation .
of after the National Financial , a debate is in during to Statistics Canada on the question of know if he must allow to the polled to the questionnaire of the census of supporter the mention to Canadian to to the Order of the origin ethnic .
this privilege we has been awarded rather to against - heart for the first time in 1991 .
in 1996 , the good sense the had won to Statistics Canada , and to Canadian to Role among the examples of origin ethnic .
I suppose that many of between we are in the even case that me and not can not define their origins ethnic by a only word .
as the most of the people whose the family is established to the Canada since more of a generation not can revendiquer a simple origin ethnic , I have need of assistance of the share of my colleagues senators .
I refuses of accept the Marchand to b?tarde to .
my history of the side paternel are , by Order alphab?tique , German , English , Scotians and irlandais therefore that a lady always vaguement demanded who was probably tis .
of the other side , my mother is of AD to admires to British .
not forget not that he must hear by AD admires British a good mixture of Pictes and of Celtes , 300 years of occupation Roman - this who explain probably the chevelure black and the Grits oliv?tre of my mother - without speak of the waves successives of Angles , of Jutes , of Saxons , of fog in maraude and of Normands conqu?rants .
two of my grandchildren - children have of the ancestors European who are came in America of the North to the beginning of the XVIIe century .
wavered generations of this family are valour and have grew on our mainland .
who therefore are we ?
of the liver hach? ?
how must - we we describe we - same ?
I believe that we are of proud Canadians of origins abiding characteristically Canadian .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Milne :
I states that I am a CIBC typical and Statistics Canada should have shame of even show to choose the benefits of the marketing to the backs of the freedom of choice who allows to the Canadians of if describe as they the want .
what shame !
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
Tabled of the report of the Committee on the part 1
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the second report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology Authorize on the part 1 of the bill of bill C - 6 , Act designed to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of means electronic for communicate or registering of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the Instruments regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws .
Tabled of the report of the Committee on the parties 2 to 5
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the third report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology Authorize on the parties 2 to 5 of the bill of bill C - 6 , Act designed to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of means electronic for communicate or registering of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the Instruments regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws .
transport and Communications
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to allow the Electronic of his deliberations by the media of information electronic
the hon. Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , I give notice that Tuesday , the 7 December 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications be authorized to allow the Electronic of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , of manner to bother the least possible his business .
notice of motion Authorize the comit?? clerical of the services
the hon. Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , I give notice that Tuesday , the 7 December 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , personnel , employees of office or other elements necessary for examine the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have been An .
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
notice of motion Authorize the Committee to study the state of the system of health
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Tuesday 7 December , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology be authorized to examine for in do report the state of the system of health to the Canada .
more particularly , that the Committee be authorized to examine :
has ) Changes principles basic on capably is based the system public of health to the Canada ;
b ) Conformity historic of the system of health to the Canada ;
c ) Changes systems of health public in of other country ;
d ) Conformity system of health to the Canada - pressure and constraint ;
e ) Conformity role of the government federal in the system of health to the Canada ;
that the Committee presented his report final to the more later 14 December 2001 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , by derogation to the rules usuelles , to table all report deposited of the Clerk of the Senate if the Senate not seat not to this time - there ; and that the report be reputation have been tabled to the Senate .
the rights of the human and the conflict multiethniques
notice of inquiry
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 9 December , I call the attention of the Senate on the question of the rights of the human and of the conflict multiethniques .
the data of the census
Presented of Petitions
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the honour of present a petition Authorize 139 signatures who have been resulting to the during of the been last by of the members of the Bayside cardiology Fingard Society Museum The Archives .
she said follows :
we , soussign?s , granted to express our concern to the about of the decision taken by Statistics Canada of not not serves the data of the census of 1911 and of the marked ult?rieurs to the Archives national for that they ensure implemented to the clause of the public to the across of 92 years , as he and expected by the section 6 of the Rules on the protection of the information personal .
we wish have access to all the data of the marked and power continue of use these jaded resources for study our roots , we information on our ancestors and write this that we know of them in the stories of family presided to our children and to our grandchildren - children .
we feel that that is important for our values Social and that the heritage Canadian if in find enriched .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Defence national
the Timor oriental - Conformity state of the helicopters Sea King
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
the a of them has should - well involontairement , I poured - do a amerrissage forced and a other has known of other ennuis .
the Minister can - he we say if these two aircraft pilots to new , particularly extend who has been forced of amerrir ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I like all of first pay tribute to the jurisdiction of the members of the crew of the helicopter .
they have should do opposite to a problem Operational , be the option of amerrissage to the broad of the coasts of the Timor oriental .
fortunately , they have succeeded the option in any security .
after a implementation to the point invokes of a approximately of minutes , they have could d?coller and if pay to good port .
the helicopter Sea King , as the hon. Senator the knows without doubt , has been designed of way to power , if necessary , if ask also easily on the water that on land .
he is reputation for his stability during of this kind of option .
I not broaden not until to say that this amerrissage has been wanted .
he if 13 well course of a reaction to a problem invokes , but the situation has been ma?tris?e to the perfect by the crew .
the apparatus was designed for do opposite to this kind of incident , and the all has been corrected relatively quickly , account held of the circumstances .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , I not like not appeal this that said the Minister , because that could be embarrassant .
the Sea King not is not Use to operate on the water .
he fleet , but all to the more .
I not Chronicle not necessarily of question on his state of operating .
these aircraft not voleraient not if they not were not in state of operate and if they not were not pilot?s by of the people very competent and very conscientious .
can - be not have - I not been enough clear in asking my question .
the Minister can - he me say if this Sea King - there is in state of operate .
if this is the case , will he power continue his mission ?
the second Sea King has he known of the problems operational or of Availability during his stay to the Timor oriental ?
in particular , the apparatus who has merit a amerrissage forced able he steal of new ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , according the information that I have , when the helicopter has amerri , of the ships have immediately been forwarded of the HMCS Protecteur .
the crew of the apparatus has in fact red?marr? the drives after approximately 10 minutes , the helicopter has d?coll? and if is then asked to the airport of Dili .
a team of personnel has then been sent to the airport for , according the information that I have , determine , the case afforded , the relates of the damage or the need of proceed to of the upkeep .
as this is the case in this kind of incident of flight , a inquiry on the security of the prohibit has been business .
for the time , I not am not in legislation of give to the Senator the results of this inquiry or of him say if she is always in during .
the justice
the possible of amend the Code criminal relatively to the harassment criminal - Conformity influence of the bill of bill S - 6
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I believe understand that a colleague of the Leader of the government , to know her the Minister of the Justice , has concern publicly his intention of see to this that of the changes ensure concerning to the Code criminal relatively to the harassment criminal .
of this side - side of the Senate , we are puzzling of know what are the policy and the intention of the government to this regard .
more specifically , the Leader can - he confirm that the Minister of the Justice incorporera in the bill of bill defeated the provisions of the bill of bill S - 6 , a bill of bill referred if interest many , including , the Senator Oliver ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not have not of details precise for the moment .
I am sure that her the Minister of the Justice is to the fact of the bill of bill of the Senator Oliver .
further to the nature exactly of the bill of bill that she appear to the Parliament , I prefer expect until to this time - there .
I speak can - be provide then more of details .
the transport
the regulatory of a requires monopoly in the sector of the transportation Air of travellers - Position policy government
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , my question to the Leader of the government to the Senate respect the policy government to the regard of the monopoly who threat of if dramatically in the sector Canadian of the transportation Air of travellers .
the Minister of the Transport seems say that he hope and account that a or several other businesses competition in time timely if join to the sector and create of the competition .
between - time , he hesitant to regulate more strictly the sector and suggests hear that the government will always the power of act in case of price predatory .
this that I want know , to the extension , this is where in is the policy government .
this not is surely not the last word .
I not love not more that anyone the regulatory , but we basis in a situation where he there will virtually a monopoly in this sector for a period ind?finie .
in consequential , he will hurts regulate of new the sector .
the business not can not be Cabinet to withdraw of the services , to his grateful , or to draw his price as she the committed .
who said monopoly said new regulatory .
the Leader of the government to the Senate can - he we give the insurance that the question of know if he must rer?glementer the new monopoly not has not been factual and that the government takes this responsibility to the seriously and that he not will not evidence of complaisance in giving a policy low as similar Mr. Collenette has proposed to the during of the interview that he has given recently to the media ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
I believe , honourable senators , that the commitment of the government relatively to the questions raised by the Senator has been expressed clear by the Minister and reiterated by me in this chamber .
nothing not has still been decided .
as the Senator the knows , in few days , the shareholders of the a of the carriers Threat goes to the vote on the offer who their has been Before .
I hesitant therefore to me deal for the time , because that could be considered as a statement influant on this decision .
however , I then say that the Minister has statement very clear the five objectives of the policy of the government , to know the protection of the consumers against the price exorbitant , the keeping of the services to the small communities , the protection of the rights and of the concerns of the employees , the keeping of the competition and , course , the control Canadian force .
the government and the Minister of the Transport are profoundly to apply these principles .
for the hour , he rest of the points to resolve in the sector private , but these principles not changeront not .
they remain the key of vo?te of the policy government in this sector .
the Senator Murray :
I thank the Leader of the government for his response and his point of the conditions contained by his colleague , Mr. Collenette .
I believe that the people of Air Canada have took knowledge of a array of report - after a identifies and can - be if is - he of a report informal - of a Committee of the House of the Commons who formula some recommendations further to the regime that the government should put in place .
the chairman of Air Canada said to the government and to the Parliament this that he is prepared to accept .
I am struck by the contrast between the attitude intransigeante of Air Canada , who we said this that she acceptance and this that she not acceptance not , and the attitude rather docile and passive of the Minister of the Transport .
what that he in be , we see in time and held .
the Senator Boudreau :
when the you has asked to the Minister what measures the government 7.6 for ensure the respect of the objectives of the policy and who limited meet this policy , he has answered wording that the parliamentarians , the Board of the competition , the Board of the transport of the Canada , the Minister of the Transport therefore that the Governor in board joueraient a role .
to this step - side , the Committee of the Senate and extend of the House of the Commons have all two examined the question .
I am satisfied that they have fact a excellent work and that the Minister incorporated seriously account of their findings .
he not fact no doubt that the chairman of Air Canada cite express his opinions and I am satisfied that the Minister in incorporated account also .
however , the decisions Strategy and the structure final will service of the principles that I have listed to the intention of the honourable senators .
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate is - he in considering of say that he is possible that the government heard return to a industry air r?glement?e to the Canada ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , for the moment , the process following his during .
the sector private must take of the decisions very serious , and I think that we should expect that these decisions ensure taken .
they the will under little , and we not should not speak or trying of influer of someone way that this be on the decisions that cognizant of the special acted their rights to payments of shareholders .
I am very prudent to this about .
however , for the moment , the government has presentation the principles broad on capably if independent any policy who will RFP .
to my notice , this is to the Minister of the Transport that he book , to a date later , of determine exactly how these principles will developed in application .
the v. of the operations of the company air InterCanadien - Conformity service to the small communities
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the Minister continues of repeat the five principles viewed by his colleague , the Minister of the Transport , the a of them met the service to the small communities .
the v. of the operations of InterCanadien has had of the impact on of small communities of the region of where the hon. Senator is placed .
the Minister can - he say to the Senate how of Airports of the Canada Atlantic stood desservis only by InterCanadien not are more desservis now ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator of his question .
I have consulted quickly my notes , but if I me recall well , he is question of three Airports .
the Senator Kinsella :
the Leader can - he the appoint ?
the Senator Boudreau :
he there in has two to the New - Brunswick , that the hon. Senator knows surely very well , and a to Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
the Senator Kinsella :
our colleague , the hon. Senator Cochrane , has underlined the other day that the airport of Stephenville and two Airports of the North - is of the New - Brunswick were of the number .
the population of Stephenville and of the North - is of the New - Brunswick not account she not in the spirit of the government ?
the Senator Boudreau :
I believe understand that to the hour current all the communities of the Canada Atlantic , to the exception of these three communities , are tour by a other transporteur .
these three communities , be Stephenville , to Newfoundland - Newfoundland , and Charlo and Chatham , to the New - Brunswick , are tour by Air Scotia to departure of Bathurst .
further to Stephenville , his population must section if pay to the centre of Deer Lake , located to approximately 113 kilometres of their community .
still there , this not is not the ideal , but hope that this will lengths .
I must attention that the service of transportation Air to Stephenville possession of the problems before even the events recent .
the Senator Forrestall :
that say of Sydney ?
the regulatory of a requires monopoly in the sector of the transportation Air of the travellers - Position policy government
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I have a last question supplementary that I like ask in the purpose of do the point and the light on this question .
the Minister can - he guarantee to the Senate that the government not tol?rera not a monopoly not r?glement? in the sector of the transportation Air of the travellers ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
I then say to the honourable senators that the government belonging the interests that has clear listed the Minister of the Transport in his policy .
the trade international
the failure of the discussions to the Organization World of the trade - Changes grants agricultural of the States members - Conformity assistance to the farmers Canadian .
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , met given that the negotiations of the WTO have failed in end of week and that , of any obviously , the question of the agriculture concern greatly some senators , I remind that the Minister of the Agriculture , the Leader of the government to the Senate , of other ministers and the Prime Minister have all said that , for help the farmers Canadian , he needed absolutely eliminate the grants excessive that paid the Americans and particularly the Europeans to their farmers .
he seems now that this objective not will not reached before long .
what is the Position of alternative of the government for help the farmers and how will he refute the grants excessive who exist in the systems European and U.S. ?
he appear that he not gave currently not of strategy for come in assistance to the farmers of the Western .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , he is clear for all the world that the results obtained to Miami in this who respect the question of the grants not are not satisfying and that the file not has not progress? as we the had hoped .
however , he would false of conclude that the discussions have took end .
the discussions in view of eliminate or of refute the grants awarded by the States - United and the Union European if continue under the auspices of the WTO .
we hope that the file will advance and , in fact , he remains a priority primordiale for the Minister and for the government .
the Senator Andreychuck :
honourable senators , I con?ois that the negotiations ensure a priority .
they the are since 1947 .
this that I find difficult to accept , this is that you if hallway to this that they produced a result who we would licences of see the light to the across of the tunnel , and this , for the first time depuis5 or 10 years .
this not is clear not the case .
even if the negotiations if continue , a solution satisfactorily not come not before a across of time .
that will the government for help the farmers of the Saskatchewan to the light of the fact that the negotiations of the WTO have clearly been correspondence to more later ?
the government r?examinera he the programs of assistance and of support to the farmers of the Western today today ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I repeat that these discussions if occupied under the auspices of the WTO .
the Minister and our government continue of there give the priority that they deserve .
I pretend also to the Senator that , to the during of discussions that we have liberty , the Minister me has said that the negotiations on the renewal of the programs spouse federal - provincial of security of the income if occupied and , hope - the , of a way who help the farmers Canadian .
the Senator Andreychuk :
honourable senators , is - this that you raise some questions in dangling in this who has relates to the transportation ?
is - this that you chair the question of the fees of transportation for the farmers of the west of the Canada ?
the Senator Boudreau :
to this stage - side , I not can not clarify the substance of the discussions in during between the governments federal and provincial .
I could can - be obtain these information and , if possible , the share with the Senator .
the Senator Andreychuk :
I like have these information not wrote , because I believe understand that he there has had of the discussions with the companies pipeline for limit the profits , if I can use this term , or the surplus that they immunities of the transportation of the Wheat and of the other products agricultural .
I like a response written on any the policy of the transport to the Canada .
the Senator Boudreau :
I me commitment to provide the response written the more detailed possible .
response research to a question orale
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have the response research to a question that the hon. Senator Spivak has raised the 17 November 99 to the Senate to the about of the regulatory of the products of ?quarrissage .
the health
the regulatory of the products of ?quarrissage - Position policy of the government
( response to the question raised by the hon. Mira Spivak the 17 November 99 )
the government federal diminish the powers required for regulate the membership of the products ?quarris and the industry of the ?quarrissage .
in fact , all the Contents grasses and all the tourteaux of protein 118.8 to be used in of the foods of the animals are unregulated under the regime of the Act Current to the foods of the cattle .
the products ?quarris must be substandard to the standards determined in the Rules on the foods of the cattle and not can forecast of contaminants who would harmful to the animals or menaceraient the specifications of the foods .
the institutions of ?quarrissage doing the subject of a inspection Annual who allows of check if they boat the registres user , apply the measures of control considered for avoid the contamination fork and ?tiquettent properly their products .
of the parties of animals hers abattus are since of many years transform?es for be ajout?es to of the foods of the cattle as sources of protein of high quality .
in April 1996 , the Organization World of the health has recommended that all the country prohibit that of the meat and of the farine of routine of ruminants ensure data to eat to of the ruminants .
follows includes the tested , the moutons and the ch?vres , by example .
these measures if reality in the framework of the efforts designed to eliminate all the factors of risks known associated to the transmission of the enc?phalopathie spongiforme of the tested ( ESB ) or to illness of the cow Mad to .
in 1996 , the Canada has led of extensive consultation of the industries affected who have given held to the tax of the ban Current to the foods of the cattle in August 1997 .
since the taken of effect of the ban , the farmers not can more use of to Contents interdites to as ingr?dients in the foods of the ruminants .
however , the farmers can still use these Contents in the foods of the animals not ruminants as the volaille and the porc .
if the Canada has decided of exempt the porc and the volaille of the ban of give of the protein mammaliennes to eat to of the ruminants , this is that no enc?phalopathie spongiforme transmissible ( BE ) of origin natural not has been pressing home the porc or the volaille .
in addition , the use continues of these products in the foods of the productions and of the volaille pools the need of the incin?rer or of the enfouir .
for ensure the regulatory expeditiously of the products of ?quarrissage , the ACIA has undertaken a review of the policy to this regard .
the business of the Senate
Order to the Rules - Ruling of the Speaker
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , before that we not emotions to the Order of the day , I am prepared to me deal on the question who has been raised by the Senator Corbin to the about of the employment , by the hon. Senator Cools , of the term English to minion to .
I thank the hon. Senator Corbin of have raised the question to the Senate , because the question of the comments who are made to the Senate or to the other place to the about the a of the other and still to the about of the Governor General is important .
the senators must always if keep of use a words who could be blessant for of the persons who roles of the positions prestigious .
however , I have read carefully the comments of the Senator Corbin on the question .
he has quoted the 9e edition of the Concise Oxford Dictionary for clarify the latitude of the term .
he if is of first of a subject loved and sir , of a plucked , of a amoureux or of a amoureuse , of a ma?tresse or of a amant , particularly when they are particularly esteemed or that they are pr?f?r?s , a idol favorite , or the plucked of a sovereign .
however , you said also to or advocate servile to .
the most of the definitions are flatteuses .
I must therefore pay as decision that the term to minion to not is not offensive in his latitude general .
he must however , I the repeat , do evidence of the more great judgment for avoid all the words offensants to the place of other persons or of institutions important to the Canada .
Order OF orders
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Kirby , seconded by the hon. Senator Lewis , seconded to the second Reading of the bill of bill C - 6 , Act designed to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of means electronic for communicate or registering of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the Instruments regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I informed the Senate that , if the hon. Senator Kirby takes the speak now , his intervention will for effect of closing the debate of second Reading .
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , my comments today today will very brief for the simple reason that I have tabled more earlier today today two reports of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology in report with the bill of bill C - 6 .
as the honourable senators if in recall , he there has two weeks , this House had decided of suspend the debate of second Reading during that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology appeared to the study of the subject of the bill of bill C - 6 , this that we gone called stood to study pre to .
the results of the hearings and of the deliberations of the Committee on this question if find in the two reports who have been tabled in this House he there approximately a hour .
I bring simply complying that the a of these reports recommends of the amendments to the bill of bill C - 6 , amendments who have been adopted to the unanimously by the Committee more earlier today today .
these amendments receive the support of all the members of the Committee .
by therefore , I hope that , if the senators sells end to the debate of second Reading of the bill of bill today today and ambulances the bill of bill to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology , extend - side able if meet tomorrow morning for examine the report .
I account then , with the leave of the S?ant , initiate the debate on the amendments .
honourable senators , to the held of examine the two reports that I have tabled today today , whose I move of examine the subject soon that the Senate will indeed before of the report tomorrow , I like , after these few comments on the conduct of the business to come , closing the debate of second Reading .
his Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill is read a second time . )
referred to the Committee
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a third time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Kirby , the bill of bill is referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology . )
motion Authorize blundering to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology of scinder the bill of bill in two - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I seriously hope that you agree that , according the precedents and the books who doing authority , the time indicated for give a blundering to the Committee , this is immediately after the referred of the bill of bill in Committee .
to this regard , I like draw the attention of the Speaker on the motion No. 22 placed , to my behalf since the 24 November and who move of give a blundering to the Committee Senate Standing .
I think that he would appropriate of we in go now and , the case afforded , I like take the speak .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , he belongs to the Senate of in decide .
the sixth edition of the Beauchesne is very precise to this about , including the or 684 , whose following the text :
the instructed can be proposed be immediately after the referred of the bill of bill in Committee , be certified under form of motion underscores .
this could therefore be fact all of following , if the Senate is of agreed , or certified .
pleasure - he to the senators of call now the motion placed to the behalf of the Senator Murray ?
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I am all to fact of agreed for that we effective the question that the Senator Murray wish raise .
that if recorded in the right over of the reports tabled today today and , in the Authorize to if express now , we expenditure to the Committee of do a work more exhaustive tomorrow .
I hope that he will given following to the request of the Senator .
his Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the senators that we tarred of the sort ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Murray :
honourable senators , pursuant to the notice of the 24 November 99 , I move :
that he be given to the Committee Senate Standing referred will referred the bill of bill C - 6 the instructed next :
that he has the power of scinder the bill of bill C - 6 , Act designed to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of means electronic for communicate or registering of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the Instruments regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws , in two bills of bill , the Prime met set of the part 1 and of the Printed 1 with of the 1993 and a clause of entry in force and the second met set of the rest of the bill of bill and of the annexes 2 and 3 with of the 1993 ; that the deliberations on the second bill of bill can be delayed until after the study of the Prime ; that the a or the other of the bills of bill can do the subject of a report to the Senate managed after have been examined ; and that , regardless of the lightweight accustomed , the Senate give this instructed not important when after have been before of the bill of bill , even after that the Committee will began the study .
honourable senators , he there has few days , while that we discutions in this chamber of the evolution of the bill of bill C - 6 to the Senate , I have took some commitments to the behalf of the loyal Opposition of Majesty Majesty .
I the have fact with the approval of the leadership of this side - side .
the commitments were essentially that , if he there had a clause of the Committee for original this bill of bill order of take in consideration the concerns address , including in the sector of the care of health , we , of our side , passes all this that we could , in the legislation of the reasonable , for do adopt in the more brief soon a bill of bill amended order that he can be examined by the members before that they not ajournent the House of the Commons for the break of No .
I rise now for confirm this commitment .
however , this commitment step a problem for the motion .
if I soumettais this motion to a debate and to a vote requires , that could have for effect of delay the Adopted of a bill of bill amended in this chamber and of hurt to the commitment that I have took more earlier .
I like therefore simply say that I not have not the intention of proceed therefore .
I will now do few remarks on the question and let hear that , when I close concluded , a colleague cite can - be simply adjourn the debate .
this is a question important that I have raised .
this bill of bill combine in fact two bills of bill separate .
I had someone share , and I the have can - be always if I can the passed , of the quotations of the Minister of the Justice and of officials of the Department of the Industry who affirm that he there had to the departure two bills of bill who have been combined in a only .
I had the intention of do supporter these quotations to the comte realized .
unfortunately , honourable senators , you someday me believe on speak , because that among all the suffice that I have in labour , I not find not the statements made by Ms McLellan and by the officials of the Department of the Industry before the Committee of the House of the Commons during of his review of the bill of bill C - 54 .
Ms McLellan has claimed very clear that , without front negotiates of the Disclosure of the cabinet , Mr. Manley and she had indeed wanted of first present two bills of bill different , but that in reason of the calendar Parliamentary , they had decided of the combiner in a only .
a lady of the behalf of St?phanie Perrin , of the Department of the Industry , who has appeared before the Committee of the House of the Commons , therefore that before extend of the Senate he there has little of time , the has confirmed without the Shadows of a doubt .
when the officials of the Department of the Industry have appeared before the Committee Senate , I their have asked the question , but I not have not obtained of response clear .
they wanted well course protect their arri?res .
they have underlined that the bill of bill knowing part credited of the framework legislative government dealing the trade Electronic .
they have conniving the fact that the provisions of the bill of bill on the life privacy hand beyond - beyond of the trade Electronic .
they if apply to the information personal collected in the framework of activities trade , that this be by seaway Electronic or other .
the fact is that the part 1 step a bill of bill in itself .
honourable senators , I have had few reserves to the about of my motion when a sure Ian Lawson has appeared before the Committee .
this is a lawyer of Vancouver and a expert recognized of the questions regarding the information personal .
Mr. . Lawson has carried the argument that , constitutionnellement , the part 1 of the bill of bill depends of the part 2 . says not you d?rangerai not with this or , of any way I not think not the have here .
I you request a time of more of me believe on speak .
as you the know , Mr. Tass? , who is a former under - Minister of the Justice , is also a constitutionnaliste .
he not is not exaggeration of say that the argument Mr. Lawson has been r?fut? Mr. Tass? .
he we has explained of way detailed and scholarly , as to his usual , why the together of the bill of bill and all his provisions represent a fiscal legitimate and appropriate of the power of the government federal in Equity of trade .
I return to this that I mentioned during of the second Reading .
he if is in fact of two bills of bill and not of a only .
you not can not do enter this bill of bill in the category of the bills of bill omnibus because that he contains certainly more of a principle .
we gone then a debate in second Reading , a study in Committee , a debate in third Reading and we could all go each home we .
I recognize that this is a d?monstration by the absurd , but I hope that she you allows of understand the risk that valid a such practice .
words said , you will to the conflict of the rights of the Parliament in him soumettant a bill of bill containing a principle clear statement of such sort that the parliamentarians carry discuss of his provisions to the light of this principle .
of a point of view practice , to the step of the second Reading , I have expressed the fear that , in the present debate , we accordions many of attention to the part 1 , on the protection of the life privacy , that we jugeons more cause , and not enough to the parties on the trade Electronic , on the ability of the citizens of communicate with the agencies of the government federal by of the means electronic and on the effects of the Act on the evidence to the Canada on the use of the Communications electronic by the system judicial .
this are there of the questions extremely serious , but the Committee of the House of the Commons not the has virtually not scrutinized , not more that our own Committee .
honourable senators , he enough of read the third report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology , tabled more earlier today today , for see this who if is past .
the report said then : to Conformity Committee not has not received enough of evidence on the parties 2 to 5 of the bill of bill for do of the comments to comments of the provisions that they fight to .
the Committee said however that he appear ceased a support enough broad to the regard of these parties of the bill of bill .
spent well , honourable senators , if , in few months or few years , he appert that the provisions of the parties 2? 5 phones of the problems that human not has rep?r?s or planned , then the members of the government and of the Parliament discuss the air of equal fools when the people closely , in r?trospective , the path of this bill of bill to the cabinet and during all the process legislative .
honourable senators , even if I suggests let my motion for the reasons that I have contained , I wish to this that my colleagues understand to what point the senators of this side - side taking the question to the seriously .
we believe that he must do all in our power for appeal the government when he presented a bill of bill who is in fact two bills of bill , as this is the case here , simply for accommoder those who pertinent the business to the other place .
this are the members of the Opposition of the other place who number should object with force if that had escaped to the attention of their colleagues .
but that , this is a other history who points still a time the importance of the Senate as House of second review of the decisions of the power executive .
( on the motion of the Senator Kirby , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Report of the Committee - Adjourned of the debate
the Senate proceeded to the study of the second report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional ( bill of bill C - 7 , Act amend the Act on the stopped judicial and a other bill in consequential , with proposals of amendment ) , presented to the Senate the 30 November 99 .
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , in as that chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , I have the honour of address the report on the bill of bill C - 7 , Act amend the Act on the stopped judicial and a other bill in consequential .
the bill of bill move a sure number of changes to the procedure of rehabilitative portion in the Act on the stopped judicial .
he provides including a exception to the rule general of not - disclosure of the issues of the persons who have obtained a rehabilitative to the regard of a offence portion to the regulations order of allow their communication in the framework of the review of the candidates to a employment who doctor these persons in situation of confidence or of authority by report to of the children or to of the persons vulnerable .
the bill of bill is referred with of the proposals of amendment .
before of explain these proposals of amendment , however , I wish to you provide a sure historic of the facts .
in June last , the Solicitor General has appeared before the Committee for do the promotion of the bill of bill then called C - 69 .
all to the long of this sitting and of those who have followed , he is became clear for your Committee that the bill of bill such that articulate omissions several flaws .
to the behalf of the Committee , I have wrote to the Solicitor General for him do share of our concerns , to know , including , that we were drastically of see that he not there had no referred deliberately to the fact that the bill of bill intended the issues of the offenders sexual r?habilit?s .
that we inqui?tait , in addition , that some elements 11,800 of the bill of bill ensure control in the regulation citation the bill of bill .
during our deliberations , we have also discussed acrimonieusement of the elements of policy who under - tend the bill of bill and we we are asked if we apporterions a change basic to the system of rehabilitative , aspect who had been defended by several of our predecessors to the House .
I have also raised this question in the letter that I have submitted to the Solicitor General .
I not hesitant never to wants the deserves of a something to the human to which he works and I must you attention , honourable senators , that the work of the Committee has been greatly facility by the cooperation of the Solicitor General .
not only has he answered quickly to our letter , but him - even and his officials have held account of all our concerns and have prepared of the suggestions of amendments on - the - cast .
as we not had not the time of contribute these changes to the opportunity of the session modified , of the officials of the office of the Solicitor General have appeared before our Committee the week last order of discuss of new of the bill of bill and of present to the Committee of the proposals of amendments to the bill of bill who view to his concerns .
to the behalf of the Committee , I thank the Solicitor General and his officials of the attention that they have granted to our concerns and of the assistance that they have embraced in proposing of the improvements to the bill of bill .
the report regarding the bill of bill includes the major amendments following .
first , the definitions of the words to children to and to persons vulnerable to pressing of the regulation to the body of the text of the bill of bill .
the Committee has noted that the term to disability to not is more acceptable in the society of today today .
he not between more in the practice of use this term in a legislation legislative .
second , the word to body to has been added to the section 6 of the bill of bill order that he be well clear that only the offences purchase would pointed in under of the system proposed .
third , the Printed of the offences purchase has been withdrawn of the regulation and ins?r?e in the bill of bill proprement said .
honourable senators , this not is certainly not the first , or the last time , that we apportons of the improvements to a legislation legislative filter of the other place .
the changes that your Committee has Regional to the bill of bill C - 7 have licences of ending to a exception clear , closely and limited to the Act on the stopped judicial .
these changes have continued the balance between the objectives of the system of rehabilitative and the need of protect the children and of other groups vulnerable in the society .
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I support certainly the comments of the Senator Milne .
I congratulate the members of the Committee of the excellent work that they have fact in their review of the bill of bill .
I support the amendments .
I wish however to attention two subjects of concern .
the changes that the you move of contribute to the Act on the stopped judicial in this who respect the rehabilitative represent the first intrusion important on a point where the public accused clear that the rehabilitative , a time granted , interdisait any use later of the former stopped judicial of a human against she .
I me remind that , when I was young lawyer , he has onerous a sure time for that the public parvienne to understand in what efficient really the rehabilitative .
I must however express some concern regarding the integrity of the process of rehabilitative .
all to the long of the hearing , the Minister and the officials if are vilifying very aware that this legislation constitute a intrusion in the system of rehabilitative and that she walked can - be of fall or of undermine all the process of rehabilitative .
they have however claimed that the service of police who would in reminder of the system utiliserait of the mechanisms of control effective .
well that I mandatory the more great respect for the services of police to the Canada , he responsibility to the government of ensure a review abrogating and effective of the process of control of the police .
recently , by report to the Act election , you we has guaranteed that the protection of the information personal would unabated .
yet , by inadvertent , all the issues of the semiconductors of the Manitoba have been ?gar?s .
he would unacceptable that the system of rehabilitative not divested not his integrity .
he would inconceivable of not not do a review thorough and of not not maintain the system of indicators .
you not must use extend - side that for check the casiers judicial of persons conducts in of the offences of nature sexual .
this who me concern , this is that the systems if d?t?riorent with the time .
when they will to short of resources , the responsible of this system cognizant can - be of the raccourcis evidence of in threaten the integrity .
a time that you will expected this kind of entorses to the rules regarding the rehabilitative , will you trend to include of other exception to of other purposes ?
the objective described in the actions is strong commendable , but he should if act of a case startling , and no other bill of bill similar not should be presented .
Ms Patty Bowen , Director administrative of the body B?n?voles Canada , has appeared before the Committee of the Affairs legal during of the last session .
she has said that this who was the more important , this was that , of the notice of B?n?voles Canada and to the light of research Conducted , the review of candidates was different of a audit of stopped judicial .
according she , the audit of the casiers judicial has a exercise limited , because the majority of the individuals who hand mete of bad treatment to a child or to a other human not have never been recognized guilty of a crime .
they not listed therefore not in the system of casiers judicial .
these past years , we have had trend to adopt of the bills of bill who doing believe falsely to the population that the difficulty against which we attempting of struggle has decreased .
the representatives of B?n?voles Canada and of many other witnesses who have appeared before the Committee have said that the problem just of the selection of the candidates , not of the checks of casiers judicial .
few are the individuals who infligent of bad treatment to of the children or who are to the research of a employment where they discuss the opportunity of mete of bad treatment to of the children and who persons already a stopped judicial .
they have acted of way d?tourn?e and have , until to now , escaped to the system of justice criminal .
in pareils case , a audit of the stopped judicial not is hardly useful .
I account on the fact that the government , in rightfully this bill of bill , ups to this that he protects the children .
I wish to pay tribute to B?n?voles Canada for his process of selection , therefore that has of other groups as Scouts Canada , who working with of the young and if is fresher of a process of selection useful .
the children will protected in the legislation where the process of selection will followed .
these two comments met made , I support the bill of bill therefore amended .
however , I d?conseille to the government of speak in the process of rehabilitative .
I attention also to the government that this bill of bill not handcuff surely not the children of be molest?s by those who dollar a employment where of the children could be vulnerable .
I believe that the government and the Canadians have the responsibility of be always on the who - subject in this who respect the children and that this bill of bill not is that a tool among as of other to their clause .
( on the motion of the Senator Nolin , the debate is adjourned . )
the Union Monetary European
the report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign on the study - Stands of the debate
the hon. Peter A . Stollery :
honourable senators , I like that the study of the fourth report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign be placed to my behalf .
his Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he that the section be recorded to the behalf of the hon. Senator Stollery ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the section is continued . )
( the Senate if adjourned to 14 p.m. tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 17
the Tuesday 7 December 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
' ' '
his excellenceM. Far?s Bouez
member of Kesrouan to the Parliament libanais
the rights of the human
the process of peace to the Sudan
the violence against the lesbiennes and the gais
the relations States - U.S.
the problems to the positions boundaries
the Ontario
the bill of bill of restructuring regional - Position proposal designed to declare the city of Ottawa unilingual English
visitor of Gallery
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in implement of conventions tax
report of the Committee of the Banking and of the trade
referred of the bill of bill to the Committee of the Affairs foreign
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
the report of the Committee
the adjournment
the group Parliamentary Canada - States - United
the conference of the Alliance commercial transfrontali?re States - American - Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian
his along as senior official Honorary of the Senate to the opportunity of his retirement
the Program of Exchange of pages with the House of the Commons
PERIOD PERIOD question
the transport
the possible of a taken of control of the Airlines air Canadian International by Air Canada - Conformity service to the Airports regional
the Council of the Treasury
the preparedness in view of the year 2000 - Position possible of a hearing in Committee Whole
the heritage
the League national of hockey - Position possible of a new loterie for help the teams Canadian - Conformity announcement of the Minister
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the Quebec - Changes conditions Moneys of a referendum - Position date of the announcement by the Prime Minister
the work
the situation criticism of the without - homeless - Conformity state of advancement of the strategy government
the Affairs foreign
the report of the Council Canadian for the cooperation international - Position recommendation pr?conisant the institution of a group of work - Position Position of the government
the plan designed to establish a policy consistent of assistance foreign
the membership of the budget of the assistance foreign
the assujettissement of the assistance foreign to the respect of the rights of the human - Position Position of the government
the business of the Senate
Order to the Rules
Order OF orders
the business of the Senate
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
Adopted of the report of the Committee
the bill on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Adopted of the report of the Committee
branch Canadian of the church morave of America
bill of bill private designed to amend the bill of incorporation - Second Reading
energy , environment and resources natural
Authorized to the Committee of Services of the staff and of if adjourn
review of the policy Canadian antidrogues
motion Authorize the training of a Committee Senate Special - Adjourned of the debate
fisheries
Authorized to the Committee of study of the questions Impediment to his mandate
Authorized to the Committee of Services of the staff
Authorized to the Committee of clerical of the services
the SENATE
the Tuesday 7 December 99
the sitting is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker met to the Chair .
prayers .
his excellenceM. Far?s Bouez
member of Kesrouan to the Parliament libanais
the hon. Pierre De De :
Mr. . the Minister Bouez is the son of the distinguished jurist and Parliamentary Nouhad Bouez and of Ms Jacqueline Bouez , born Debs .
he is the husband of Ms Zalfa Hraoui and they are the happy parents of four children , Rhea , Nouhad , Tarek and Andr?a .
holder of a control in right libanais of the University St. - Joseph of Beyrouth , he if major in right French to the Faculty Jean - Moulin of Lyon and fact a trust to the University Georgetown of Washington .
this is a great joy for we of accueillirM. Far?s Bouez .
he is came to the Canada Sunday the 5 December , and will among we until to the end of the week .
Mr. . Bouez brings , during his stay to the Canada , the diplomats of the Department of the Affairs foreign who followed the situation to the Middle - East , of even that the senior officials of the Agency Canadian of development international .
to the Parliament , Mr. the Minister Bouez has also given a conference to the Middle East Study Group on the situation to the Middle - East .
he express also a remarks this after - afternoon to the University of Ottawa where he is the guest of the Pritchard , Mr. Marcel veill .
he will received also by the Speaker of the Senate , the hon. Gildas Molgat , and brings the leadership of the other House of our Parliament .
Mr. . the Minister Bouez visitera , to the during of his stay , the Ville of Montreal , where he will received officially by the mayor Pierre Bourque .
he will also of the trade with of the researchers of the Institute of the studies strategic .
he will received by the chairman of the Council of the OACI , the Dr. Assad Kotaite , a distinguished citizen of the Republic libanaise .
during his stay in our country , Mr. the Minister Bouez brings of the representatives of the community Canadian of origin libanaise .
I like mention the contribution exceptional of the community Canadian of origin libanaise .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the period of three minutes is completed .
the leave is - she granted to the Senator of continue his statement ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator De De :
honourable senators , the community libanaise is not only very presented , she if is also illustr?e in all the sectors to the Canada , between other , the education university , the medicine , the right , the Affairs and the high service public Canadian .
you if recalls of the role important that have played two doctors of origin libanaise deposited of two first ministers of the Quebec .
by - beyond the ?loignement geographical who , in truth , if estompe before the blossoms of the village overall , Beyrouth is also poised of we that the other cities Canadian .
through to the Technology modern of the telecommunications and to Internet , our two country shared the same values of democracy , of tolerance , of economy Liberal and of pluralisme hierarchy and cultural .
of more , the presence to the Canada of a community important of origin libanaise step a basic strong and permanent of relations close between our two country .
the Canada support drew the independence , the sovereignty and the integrity territorial of the Lebanon .
of more , the Canada support the resolution 425 of the Council of security and the extension of the authority libanaise on all his territory .
the Canada has received the visit of the chairman of the Republic libanaise to Moncton the been last during of the Summit of the Francophonie who was held to the New - Brunswick .
we have noted with satisfaction that the first visit of the chairman Lahoud in outside of the region of the Middle - East if is d?roul?e to the Canada .
the Lebanon is of elsewhere the only country of the Middle - East who is member to share full of the Francophonie .
of more , the next Summit of the Francophonie , doing following to extend of Moncton to the New - Brunswick , if incorporated to the Lebanon in 2001 .
honourable senators , the Lebanon expression of the values copies of tolerance , of generosity and of tenacity .
he has suffering the affres of a War terrible , promue and consultants by the showdown foreign that he has vaincues by the courage and the tenacity of his population .
in that , he is a example for the world around .
I like remind also to the chairman of the Parliament libanais , His Vassilev Nabih Berri , and to the chairman of the Group Parliamentary Lebanon - Canada , His Vassilev Far?s Bouez , our showing of work closely with them to the strengthening of the relations between our two country .
the rights of the human
the hon. Calvin Woodrow Ruck :
honourable senators , he there has more of 200 years , a great movement of ?mancipation has had held to the within of the Raj British and of the States - United of America who has licences to the black - men , women and children - of be physiquement lib?r?s of the cha?nes of the slavery .
yet , in this era enlightened , the black are still considered of after the colour of their peau .
honourable senators , we have fact many of progress since the then of the slavery .
my ancestors were of the esclaves .
today today , we conclude in a country democratic where of many opportunities if business to we .
the Act on the rights of the human of 1977 has fact many for this who is of help the members of the minorities visible to learn party of the benefits and of all this that this great country to offer , but , in as that country , we have however of the problems to stay cohesive .
I have recommended that together , we committing our efforts order that the people not ensure more considered of after the colour of their peau , but of after this that they have in the heart .
we were supposed live in some unequal although exclusively to the members of the minorities visible .
the Act on the rights of the human has changed all that .
we have fact of great progress and he rest many to do , but I am of agreed with those who say that the Canada is the country of the world where he fact the better live .
the process of peace to the Sudan
the hon. LoisM. Wilson :
honourable senators , to the during of the nine last months , he there has had of important developments in the War civil to the Sudan .
the conflict between the North and the south not has not took end and the number of barils of Oil products if is increased since the end of the business of implementation in place of the pipeline between the South - Sudan and Port - Sa?d , in the North .
the community international , there including the Canada , has improve of the appropriation for fund a modest Secretary composed of four persons and based to the Kenya , under the auspices of the Authority governmental for the development , or IGAD .
this initiative African , whose the mandate is of negotiate a plan of peace , has the support of the International Partners Forum , whose fact part the Canada .
the 26 October 99 , the Department Canadian of the Affairs foreign has announced two appointments - the mine , to payments of sent Special in the framework of the process of peace to the Sudan , and similar of John Harker , to payments of advisor Special on the questions African .
the two duties are complementary but continue of the objectives different , pursuant to the policy public of the Canada to the regard of the Sudan .
my mission contra to revigorer the process of peace to the outcome of extensive consultation deposited of NGOs and of academic Canadian , of members of the community soudanaise to the Canada and of representatives of country brothers who Whelans their support to the process of sparks , therefore that of the government and of the Opposition army of the Sudan .
this week , by example , some of between we rencontreronsM. Bethuel Kipligat , a Leader of leadership of the society civil kenyan who working to a process of peace to two consistently in view of ensure the reconciliation between the leaders of the sector NGOs soudanais of the North and of the south , with the support of Project Ploughshares of Waterloo and of Alternatives of Montreal .
the week next , to Ottawa , I close a meeting avecM . Haruun Ruun bearer Telar Ring Deng , two representatives of the New Sudan Rehabilitation of Churches , who implement to the contribution of the peace and to the implementation in place of solutions to the questions North - South , in cooperation with the IGAD , of even that to the coordination of the development of the churches in this country ravag? by the War .
the Position of the Canada is nothing of least that the implementation in implement of a plan of peace overall and controlled .
the work revert to revigorer the process of country speaks on the long term because he not there not of solution miracle .
the policy Canadian is little more complex that his tax American in this that she fact place to a dialogue drove with the sector private Canadian .
if he derail that the mining oil exacerbe the conflict to the Sudan or give held to of the abuses of the rights of the man , then he will arisen of put in implement of the restrictions to the trade or all other instrument to clause .
only a action quick in favour of a peace equitable to the Sudan allow to the population soudanaise of learn party of this resources natural .
this is this who explain that the Canada gave consulted to these two appointments complementary and that he seems current to a allure more measured that his seat of the south , by example , for resolve these questions ?pineuses .
the violence against the lesbiennes and the gais
the hon. Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators , the 7 November 99 , Robert Peterson , student in first year of right to the University of the New - Brunswick to Fredericton , has been crudely prevalent then that he Monique home him to foot later the night .
the agresseur has been l?che in this that he has attaqu?M. Peterson of walk , him Authorize of the minuses repeated to the face .
this doing , he has abreuv? of injures haineuses and homophobes this poor young man who deserves so better .
approximately two weeks after this abuse , a incident similar if is product in the even Headquarters of the centre .
honourable senators , I rise today today in response to a appeal to the action launched by a group of Scotians - Brunswickois concerned .
Robert Peterson not is by the Prime homosexuel to be ceiling to as of m?chancet? in our streets , and he not will not the last not more - to least that the society Canadian not particulars Position and not timely his subject disapproved .
this not is that in Sidney this type of fanatisme and of discrimination that we commencerons to in see the end .
in as that Jewish , this act unmitigated of haine me consterne .
we gone should learn of the lessons of the Dirnfield of the Holocaust on this that fact the haine to a human , to a family , to a community or to a country .
I find this type of racism and of discrimination deplorable .
he is appalled that of the people ignorants continue of judge their neighbours in service of their race , of their religion or of their direction sexual .
you should the airing to the great day .
in disassociate the eyes on these actions , you allows to the people of if there delivering .
we not must not be satisfied of we .
the type of cowardly peel by the agresseur of Robert Peterson is deep and empreint of haine and of fanatisme .
Mr. . Peterson plans now of leave the University of the New - Brunswick and the region of Fredericton .
what shame that a young man Summer and boldest charge the need of leave his new community and his new university to because of the ignorance , of the intolerance and of the fanatisme !
I the applaud for the courage whose he has fact evidence in if showing order of speak of the injuries diplomacy and physical who him have been Denmark .
I not can that hope that , in as that leaders , we donnerons the example to all the country and that we happen evidence of leadership moral in Sidney these crimes led by the haine .
the relations States - U.S.
the problems to the positions boundaries
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , more later today today , I d?poserai the report of the delegation Canadian to the Conference of the Alliance commercial transfrontali?re States - American who has had held to Washington , D . C . , of the 12 to the 14 September 99 . Mr. Joe Comuzzi , of the other place and me - even , in as that chairmen of the branch Canadian of the Group Parliamentary Canada - States - United , have been invited to speak during of this meeting historic of stakeholders commercial important of the two sides of the border .
the honourable senators not are not without know that the trade bilateral between our two country represents now more of 1.3 billion of $ by day and not constantly of grossir .
the trade bilateral has quadrupl? to the during of the last decade .
unfortunately , you fact opposite to of the embouteillages , to of the problems of saturation and of congestion to the article frontaliers .
of the expectations long and prevalence are occasion .
I believe that he there has three levels of government , therefore that of the authorities private and to the least 17 agencies Government of the two sides of the border who cover of a way or of a other our positions boundaries .
we not can that note a lack of leadership for this who is of r?nover this roadblocks eliminates to the efficiency commercial who obstrue our couloirs frontaliers all the days .
with the arrived of the concept of the to fair to time to in the practices of Destruction and met given that the initial of the products to fair to time to takes a expansion incredible to because of Internet , this cancer that is the saturation not will that if modern all the days and if expand .
the result , this is that the productivity and the competitiveness of the Canada continue of in barriers .
until to now , he not there has had no plan of together for rectify to this situation obvious , to this deteriorating of the conditions .
rather that the involved actually evidence of leadership policy , we let the various frustrating avoid the problem , be inefficient and worse , if delivering to of the war of jurisdiction .
Joe Comuzzi and me - even we are hemispheric to the members of the Congress American , there including the Senator Moynihan of the state of New York , the Senator Abraham of the Spencer and our old friend and colleague the Senator Frank Murkowski of the Alaska , Chairman of the Group Parliamentary Canada - States - United , in as that conf?renciers ext?rieurs .
we have all Message with vehemence , each to his way , the even message .
our colleagues U.S. have been IT to the problem .
the Congress just of approve of the investment massive in the infrastructure road including .
by against , the authorities Canadian not have not awarded the even priority to these investment .
the leaders , the ministers and the ambassadors must if meet for develop a plan common for solve this problem eliminates .
honourable senators , this not is that when we joindrons the settled to the speak that we deviendrons a nation trading also well to the soil that in the airs .
you can hope that the new millennium r?veillera our governments responsible and the incitera to assume their responsibilities in the interest of all the Canadians .
the Ontario
the bill of bill of restructuring regional - Position proposal designed to declare the city of Ottawa unilingual English
the hon. Marie - P .
honourable senators , I like do share of my great frustration to the new rapport?e today today in the daily Ottawa Citizen and on the first page of the deteriorated .
I find rather surprising and particularly very shocking that the you not declare not officially the duality linguistic of the capital of this country bilingual in the bill of bill of the restructuring regional currently to the study to Queen St. Park .
what kind of message signal you by there to the Canadians of across to the country , when the capital blond renewed who live the Parliament of the country continues of adh?rer to the vestiges of the unilinguisme ?
the government provincial is - he to the time if press? of impose a restructuring mass of the region and all to fact indiff?rent to the regard of the francophones Treaty ?
the Senator De De :
what shame !
the Senator Poulin :
he not would certainly not very varied for the government of the Ontario of declare the region of Ottawa region bilingual , in the aftermath of the other recommendations CTAISB in the wonderful report tabled Mr. Glen Shortliffe .
honourable senators , this is well more that a question regional , this is well more that a question provincial .
this is a question of pride national .
the Canada plays a role links on the scene international .
Ottawa welcome regularly the leaders of state of the world around .
Ottawa is the seat of the ambassadors , of their teams who represent , between other , the links diplomatic and commercial of their country respectif with the Canada .
Ottawa is the seat of the Parliament of the Canada , of the service public federal , where all the parliamentarians and all the officials can choose of work in English or in French .
honourable senators , I you ask of well front you join to me for urge the government of the Ontario to well reflect to the consequences of his actions and to restore in his bill of bill of restructuring who is to the study the concept of a capital bilingual of the Canada , the new city of Ottawa .
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , I like me join to the good words of the hon. Senator Pierre De De , since I have very often rencontr?M. the Minister Bouez and the ambassador of the Lebanon .
today today , to the time where of the members of a country multiconstitutionnel we Super for look a looked on a country who if said bilingual and multicultural , he is pity that we recevions the new to which has fact reference the Senator Poulin .
I not abuserai not of this privilege today today .
I reiterate more later on this question .
you know all my opinion on this country and you know all this that I think of the city of Ottawa .
Ottawa is the capital of all the Canadians .
he would realistic that Ottawa be the capital national and that the you there talking that a only of the two languages official , and that the Canadians French and other francophones not carry say that Ottawa is also their capital .
I not in pretend not more for the time because the debate will long , but I reiterate on the about .
the honourable senators located surely if join to the Senator Poulin and to the other senators for say that he must do someone something for that Ottawa reflects the real nature of the Canada .
we say well of the things in the world , and we should we put to the intellects here to Ottawa , to the Canada .
visitor of Gallery
his Hon. the Speaker :
Mr. . Bouez is informed of His Excellency the ambassador of the Lebanon to the Canada .
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in Bill of conventions tax
report of the Committee of the Banking and of the trade
the hon. line Hervieux - Hervieux , member of the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade , presented the report following :
the Tuesday 7 December 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade has the honour of present his
second REPORT
your Committee , referred has been obedience the bill of bill S - 3 , Act rigour in implement a agreed , of the conventions and of the protocoles conclude between the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzb?kistan , the Syria , the Japan and the Luxembourg , in view of avoid the duplicates Socialist and of prevent the evasion tax in Equity of taxes on the income , has , pursuant to the Order of referred of the Wednesday 24 November 99 , examined obedience bill of bill and in fact now report without amendment .
respectfully submitted ,
member of the Committee ,
C?LINE HERVIEUX - PAYETTE
referred of the bill of bill to the Committee of the Affairs foreign
his Hon. the Speaker :
pursuant to a Order Special proposed with the leave of the Senate and adopted the 24 November , and notwithstanding the subsection 97 ( 4 ) of the Rules , the bill of bill is now referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign .
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
the report of the Committee
the hon. Michael Kirby , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology , presented the report following :
the Tuesday 7 December 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology has the honour of present his
fourth REPORT
your Committee , referred has been obedience the Chapter of bill C - 6 , Act designed to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of means electronic for communicate or registering of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the Instruments regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws , pursuant to the Order of referred of the lundi6 December , has examined obedience bill of bill and in fact now report with the changes following :
1 .
page 3 , section 2 : add after the line 15 , this who following :
?? Intelligence staff on the health to In this who respect a individual alive or honour :
has ) all Intelligence having relates to his health physical or mental ;
b ) all Intelligence relatif to the services of health supplied to extend - side ;
c ) all Intelligence relatif to the charitable of parties of the body or of marine Finland facts by him , or all Intelligence revenues of the results of tests or of reviews accomplished on a part of the body or a substance corporelle of extend - side ;
d ) all Intelligence coast in the framework of the Benefit of services of health to extend - side ;
e ) all Intelligence coast fortuitement during of the Benefit of services of health to extend - side . to .
has ) Ajouter after the line 4 this who following :
to ( 1.1 )
the presented part not if applies not to a organization to the regard of the information personal on the health that she recueille , using or report . to ;
b ) Ajouter after the line 7 this who following :
to ( 2.1 )
the subsection ( 1.1 )
constantly of have effect a year after the entry in force of the present section . to .
respectfully submitted ,
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when taken - we this report ?
the Senator Kirby :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) g ) of the Rules , I move that the study of the report be placed to the Order of the day of the presented sitting .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the third Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the presented sitting . )
the adjournment
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) g ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until to tomorrow , the Wednesday 8 December 99 , thirty p.m. 30 ;
that , to 15 p.m. 30 tomorrow , if the Senate not has not concluded his business , the Speaker interrompe the deliberations for adjourn the Senate ; and
that all the points formula to the Order of the day and to the Paper of the notice , who not have not been broader , remain in their Order present .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the group Parliamentary Canada - States - United
the conference of the Alliance commercial transfrontali?re States - American - Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I have the honour of present , in the two languages official , the report of the delegation Canadian to the conference of fall of the Alliance commercial transfrontali?re States - American , who has had held to Washington , D . C . , of the 12 to the 14 September 99 .
his along as senior official Honorary of the Senate to the opportunity of his retirement
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , I am happy of propose , seconded by the Leader of the Opposition , the hon. Senator Staunton - Lynch :
that the Senate wishes express his subject appreciation of the distinguished States of service Mr. Richard G . Flame , under - Clerk and Clerk Main of the services suffer of the Senate ; and
that in recognition of the dignity , of the dedication and of the scholarly whose he has fact evidence in the fiscal of his duties , he be appropriately as senior official Honorary of this House with his entrepreneurship to the Senate and a seat to the Board to the opportunity of ceremonies .
of the Senators :
hear !
his Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I am happy of power take few minutes for express my support to the motion .
this is a opportunity to the time joyeuse and sad .
this is a sad opportunity because that Richard Flame - in saying his behalf , I think Senator Flame - we leaving to the end of the year .
in fact , I think to him for this that he is exactly , this is - to - say a Clerk extraordinary of the Senate .
the opportunity is joyeuse because that Richard Flame is if young .
he is more young that me and , for me , this is very young .
but Richard is here since a time performance , 44 years .
I am went in the hallway see the Photographs of the leaders of the government to the Senate - unfortunately , they not taking not of Photographs of the leaders of the Opposition - and the Leader of the government to the then where Richard was came work to the Senate was a sure William Ross Macdonald , of the Ontario .
Richard , you have seen move eight first ministers since you are joined in service under LouisSt. Lawrence .
honourable senators , Richard Flame is a be all to fact to share to the Senate and , I in am sure , his States of service if d?marquent in the together of the service public .
he has fact a contribution exceptional , d?butant as page for access to the position of Clerk Deputy .
Richard , you we have exchanges with a distinction and a scholarly tremendous , and we you in remercions .
I am happy of support the motion proposed , and I hope you farewell to well of the ceremonies official .
blessed - you have a long and pleased retirement .
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I am very happy of take the speak for support with enthusiasm the motion of the Senator Boudreau , even if I not was forced that by the waywardness or even the fear .
in effect , he is needless of remind that Richard Flame , more that all other member of the staff , seen all and committed all , and that , until to now he has said strong little of things , if as is that he has open the mouth .
that craft of many more important when you takes conscience that , since his arrived here , in 1956 , he has seen d?filer 277 of the 827 senators who have been appointed since the Confederation .
the third of between them have been submitted to his review .
he has been to the service of 14 portrait and he has fully nine Gouverneurs broad .
what stories Richard Flame could recount to the about of these 40 years and more that he has fellow here , and how he is rassurant of know that he not can nothing say as that he will to the service of the Senate , even to a position Doctorate !
honourable senators , I believe that this reason enough for support the motion without the less hesitation , and even with a eagerness ind?cent , little important the number of permissions necessary .
I wish to highlight more particularly the impartiality of Richard , even if his affiliation policy we craft suspecte .
this is that he Visas his advice eliminated on the procedure of way absolutely equal and without party took .
the fact is , honourable senators , except for his humour rightly , that the Senate not will not the even when we suspended the year next because that Richard emportera with him a small morceau of the Senate .
he has well too fact part of the day for that he in be words .
I hope only that he emportera also with him our respect , our gratitude and our affection , because , in the spirit of the decision decided yesterday by the Speaker , human not has better served the Senate that him .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators ...
his Hon. the Speaker :
I must inform the Senate that if the Senator Boudreau takes now the speak , his speech will for effect of closing the debate on the motion .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am all to fact of agreed with the Leader Deputy , the distinguished Leader of the Opposition and all those who have offered their wishes to Richard in private .
I the congratulate , and him wish a very pleased , successful and prosperous retirement whose commonly any his family .
he we tarde also of you see in this chamber in as that guest Honorary very Special .
that met said , I move that the motion be agreed .
of the Senators :
hear !
his Hon. the Speaker :
the Senator Boudreau , seconded by the Senator Staunton - Lynch , move :
that the Senate wish express his subject appreciation of the distinguished States of service Mr. Richard G . Flame , under - Clerk and Clerk Main of the services suffer of the Senate ; and
that in recognition of the dignity , of the dedication and of the scholarly whose he has fact evidence in the fiscal of his duties , he be appropriately as senior official Honorary of this House with his entrepreneurship to the Senate and a seat to the Board to the opportunity of ceremonies .
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Program of Exchange of pages with the House of the Commons
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I like you present the page of the House of the Commons that we have with we this week in the framework of the Program of Exchange of pages with the House of the Commons .
Mr. . Julien Morrissette , who is placed of Ottawa , studying to the Faculty of the Science political of the University of Ottawa .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the transport
the possible of a taken of control of the Airlines air Canadian International by Air Canada - Conformity service to the Airports regional
the hon. Ethel Cochrane :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government .
according the Globe The Mail of yesterday , the Minister of the Transport has said this who following :
to our notice , we must create a environment oriented the competition domestic for the new transporteur ...
we not want absolutely not return to the former regime of regulatory ...
this is there the reaction of the Minister to the taken of control imminente of the Airlines air Canadian International by Air Canada .
the question not is not here of know what society air choose , but introducing rather to determine if a society air desservira still the airport local .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank the hon. Senator of his question .
this is clearly a about of concern , particularly in some regions of the Canada Atlantic .
Stephenville is without doubt a good example of the problem referred fact opposite the sector of the transportation Air to the hour current , because this airport has already been source of problems in the past .
before the recent events who have dismantling the sector of the transportation Air , he there had had of the problems surrounding the Protective of service of transportation Air to departure of this airport .
the Minister is well to the aware of the situation and the comments vigorous made by of the senators and of the members filter in particular of the Canada Atlantic and of other grandchildren centres features none doubt to do in sort that he remains well to the fact of this question .
the Senator Cochrane :
honourable senators I lives to approximately 120 kilometres of Deer Lake .
however , of other communities are now private of service and the people must launched approximately 150 kilometres .
I think to the people of communities as Port to the aux and CapeSt. George , in the part continentale , and of the peninsula of Port to the Port , who must preferred of the disappear many more major .
the government not if makes - he not account that a policy oriented the competition not will not do d?coller of the had of Stephenville , Charlo or Chatham , to the New - Brunswick , or of the other Airports who have been already been abandoned by InterCanadien ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the statement of the Minister , I suppose , not if wanted not a solution overall .
I have mentioned to several occasions in this chamber the great principles of the policy of the government , and the a of between them respect the Liaison air with the small communities of our country .
the Minister has mentioned numerous time , to the House of the Commons and elsewhere , that the need of coastal the small communities was to the heart of the policy government .
the Council of the Treasury
the preparedness in view of the year 2000 - Position possible of a hearing in Committee Whole
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government , but all many to the Leader Deputy of the government .
she result of a question that me has raised he there has few unflinching our whip .
the Senator DeWare me has asked where I if little after the day of the Year .
I have answered that I if home me but that I have a new statement and I the him have given .
I have said : to Pourquoi want - you know where I happy ? to
she has answered : to Ah , to the case where he there would someone something who not freshly not rond to midnight of this day fatidique . to
I have of more in more the Appendix that the government not knows not to the fair where in is the Canada in this who respect the problems potential related to the Bug of the year 2000 .
order of we assure , the Leader of the government to the Senate could - he ask to the ministers competent , as the Minister of the Defence , of appear briefly before the Senate met in Committee Whole in company of a or of two of his expert , before that the Senate not adjourned for the period of No ?
that step to the senators of ask of the questions on any a series of problems possible .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , her the Minister Robillard , chairman of the Council of the Treasury , is the Minister responsible for the preparation in view of the Bug of the year 2000 .
you me has assured that of the measures have been taken in all the sectors essential and that the government of the Canada not if expected not to this that he there gave of the problems during of the from to the new millennium .
he is always good of do evidence of prudence in this kind of situation .
he can be important of know where the persons - key , as the hon. Senator , can be contact?es to all time .
follows to of the purposes of planning , only to payments of prudence .
I not believe not that that should usually the anguishes .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , the whip of the government has he or not felt necessary of seek to obtain of the information to this about ?
in the affirmative , can - he add faith to this constituted ?
my question supplementary if directed to the Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate .
has he the intention of ask to the Minister department and to a member of his staff of we spend a 20 of minutes or a half - hour for we assure on this point ?
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I know by experience that he is rodents of my share of answer to a question to least that the Leader not be absent .
however , without answer to the question , I rise note of the words of the hon. Senator and I date of there give following .
the heritage
the League national of hockey - Position possible of a new loterie for help the teams Canadian - Conformity announcement of the Minister
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , of the Bug of the year 2000 , I proceeded to Sheila Copps , who represents she - even a Bug of the year 2000 .
we can always hope that she falls in missed after the 31 December .
honourable senators , you could read recently in the Globe The Mail that Sheila Copps had announced a new plan .
as she not has not announced this that she account do to the other place , the Leader of the government to the Senate could - he explain the new plan ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I must say to the hon. Senator that I not have not been present to a meeting where a such plan would been announced .
I fear therefore of not not power the help to this about .
the Senator Tkachuk :
hence a response honest , honourable senators .
he seems that this was there also the response honest that has made the Minister responsible of this file , Mr. Manley , who not had him not more no idea of the substance of this announcement .
to who , to the cabinet , responsibility he of find a solution to the problem ?
is - this to Sheila Copps , Minister of the Heritage Canadian , or to John Manley , Minister of the Industry ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , all the members of the board executive shared certainly some concerns and a some responsibility to this regard .
the Minister Manley is however extend who in is the Main responsible .
the Senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , I am intrigu? by the way whose the government if nat of the problems national since someone time .
gold , the Minister Manley not in has not the less idea .
the Minister responsible not knows nothing of this plan .
that not me give not great confidence that someone a simply by find a solution to this that the teams Canadian of the sledges have described as a great problem to resolve for that they carry stay in activity here .
if all the ministers and all the whipped are mercy of find a solution to this plan , he would can - be useful that the Minister we explain the approach .
how can - you find a solution to a problem as extend - there ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am course that this question concern all the members of the Council private .
the education that he should can - be learn of this incident , this is that he not must not always believe all this that you reads in the Globe The Mail .
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the Quebec - Changes conditions Moneys of a referendum - Position date of the announcement by the Prime Minister
the hon. Lowell Murray :
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the results of any discussion who would had held , the case afforded , would prominent public by the Prime Minister in time useful .
the Senator the knows surely .
the Senator Murray :
honourable senators , I understand naturally that the Leader of the government hesitant to damer the pion to the Prime Minister to the about of his announcement .
however , can - he we say when we can hope that the Prime Minister will a announcement to this regard ?
the Senator Boudreau :
I am sorry , but I hesitant to do of the conjectures on the date where the Prime Minister cite do a announcement on a question also important to his eyes .
as I risk of misleading involontairement the senators in mistake , I please the Senator of not not me ask of give a response direct and I pretend rather , for use a expression standard , to in time and held to .
hope that the Prime Minister will his announcement in a future enough grown .
the Senator Murray :
honourable senators , I understand that .
I not objective not to fairer the things .
I valid the question all simply because that he is possible , even likely , that the Parliament , who includes course the Senate , will developed to contribution .
I trying of determine if we should we hold loans , if to examine a question , to the least to take note of a initiative introduced to the Parliament before the break of No .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , if the Prime Minister committed proceed by the seaway legislative , the Senate will inevitably a role important to play .
to know if that can underscoring with our Celebration of No , I if brought to believe that we mark all No with our families .
the work
the situation criticism of the without - homeless - Conformity state of advancement of the strategy government
the hon. M. Robertson :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate and door on the strategy of the government designed to unconventional the situation of the without - homeless .
in fact , my question fact following to a response afford by the hon. Leader of the government to a question raised by the Senator Cohen , the 23 November last .
to the end of the Winter last , the government has responsible the Minister of the Labour of disseminating the solution that the government has proposed to the problem of the without - homeless .
to this time , the situation fine high .
you had expressed of many concern , because well of the people had suffered to the during of the Winter .
her the Minister had then said that she ?laborerait the strategy of the government in least of a months .
honourable senators , this who me concern , met given the time expired , this is the possible that this strategy if enlise someone share to the government .
this is of elsewhere this that suggests hear a section The yesterday in the Toronto Star , that the Leader has surely read .
you quote a source government who would said this who following :
we not have could delivering the marchandise .
human not if in pleased .
the Minister has worked strong and we can say that we have fact of the things , but we not have not could hold speak .
I not like not me proud only to this section .
the Leader of the government could can - be contribute of the Particulars regarding the response that he has given to the Senator Cohen he there has a 15 , inform the Senate of the state of advancement of the strategy regarding the without - homeless and explain on what he if suggested in saying that of the measures would announcements under little .
used here , the expression to under little to is always strangely ?lastique .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Minister responsible has fact a work remarkable in if skill in all the regions of the country for consult the people and meet the groups directly in because .
she has covered well of the ground and has presented very assiduously of the positions of principle and of the programs in favour of the without - homeless .
I then ensure to the hon. Senator that this process not if is not enlis? .
the Minister if case with expeditiously and dynamism to the implementation in implement of his recommendations .
in this who respect the date exactly of the announcements , to new I must say that he book to the Minister of in decide .
however , I sharing the hope of the Senator and I account well that the announcement not tardera not too .
the Senator Robertson :
honourable senators , I thank the Leader of the government of this response .
this who me bothers , this is that the government has claimed prematurely that a strategy would in force since nice lurette .
that has created of the expectations who have terni a little the good intentions of the government and who have d?contenanc? all those who wanted if attack to this serious problem .
according the even section of the Toronto Star , the Minister of the Finance would said that , for give of good results , the strategy must be accepted by the three levels of governments .
well of the honourable senators , whose the Leader of the government and me - even , have already participated to the negotiating of agreements federal - provincial .
we know to what point of such negotiations can be difficult and long , then who knows to what time we obtiendrons a strategy on the without - homeless ?
seen that he must now that the provinces and the municipalities if legalities , the process could take two or three years .
between - time , well of the people suffering .
the Leader of the government to the Senate could - he we say if the negotiations with the provinces have reductions and what is the Frame ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the other levels of government have far responsibility of we help to met this challenge of size who if valid across to the country .
he is clear that they have a role to play .
all program pr?sent?par the government federal not replace not the responsibilities who , morally and constitutionnellement , owned to the governments provincial and , by procuration , to the authorities municipal .
I attention the questions of the hon. Senator to her the Minister and I bring of my better for return with the more of information possible .
the Senator Robertson :
honourable senators , this who concern of many Canadians , between other things , this is that to the time where the announcement has been made the Winter last , he not has not been question of the participation of the provinces or of the municipalities .
he seems that the government federal not has not played the role of Leader of leadership , as he the had promised .
this is disturbing , and I like obtain of the Questions clear and assign , order of power answer of manner preventing to the people who ministerial continually with my office .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I understand , say , the forward that the Senator applaud to the regard of this question .
I then only him give the insurance that her the Minister if interest of very almost to the file and that she continues of the do current .
to the risk of me repeat , I will delivering any the information that he me is possible of communicate to the hon. Senator order of already some of his concern .
the Affairs foreign
the report of the Council Canadian for the cooperation international - Position recommendation pr?conisant the institution of a group of work - Position Position of the government
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
today today , the Council Canadian for the cooperation international has realized public a report entitled : to Bilan of the assistance to ; this report points that the contribution of the Canada to the assistance public to the development has reached his more lower level en30 years and that our country is now eleventh among les21 country donor of the OECD , then that he if rated to the seventeenth rank in 1996 .
this is a peerage record for the better country where live in the world .
account held of the fact that the government has announced the intention of the Canada of increase his budget of assistance , the question of the quality of the assistance is always of implementation .
by therefore , the board has recommended the creation of a group of work on the renewal of the assistance Canadian , group who entreprendrait a review abrogating of the priorities of programs of the CIDA .
the Leader of the government to the Senate would - he the please of convey this recommendation to the government and of do then report to the Senate order of him say if situation group of work will created and , in the case contrary , for what reason ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I know of what report talking the hon. Senator .
to least that I me wrong , he has been realized public today today , of sort that I am satisfied that the Minister in question not has not still had the opportunity of the excellent in detail .
in the speech of the Throne , the government if commitment clear to increase the assistance to the development international .
he if commitment also to do in sort that she be construct according of new guideline innovative who enable of help of way more effective the country poor to obtain of the results in Equity of development economic .
I hope that the you occasionally following to the feelings views in the speech of the Throne in the framework of the process budget .
for answer more specifically to the hon. Senator , I bring share of this question to the Minister interested .
we should give to the Minister the time of take knowledge of the report , but I me commitment to obtain a response to the question of the hon. Senator .
the plan designed to establish a policy consistent of assistance foreign
the hon. LoisM. Wilson :
honourable senators , I have participated today today to the table NRTEE hosted by the CCCI and to which were attendance of the officials of the CIDA .
where is the gallery loaded of solve these contradictions order that our policy of assistance presented more of consistency ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the speech of the Throne indication clear that the you reverrait our policy of assistance foreign .
this review if d?roulera to the throughout and to legislation that we progresserons in the graduate budget and that we aborderons some of the important problems who have been raised to this regard .
the decisions regarding the assistance foreign must clearly concorder with the objectives designed to reduce the poverty , to improve the health and the education and , of fact , to favouring a healthy management public in all the country of the world .
that remains a objective important of the Department of the Affairs foreign and of the Trade international .
the Senator Wilson :
honourable senators , all that is strong rassurant , but the response received this after - afternoon evidence that he not there not of plan .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I me in like of be also authoritative .
the plans of action whereas in the speech of the Throne will ?labor?s during the weeks and the months to come .
to the throughout and to legislation that we progresserons in the graduate budget , I think well that her the Senator observera of the elements who the rassureront .
the membership of the budget of the assistance foreign
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , the Prime Minister has indicated that the budget of the assistance will increased .
this budget not has never been also reduced in 30 years .
he includes now also a assistance humanitarian increased and the actions of keeping of the peace , as those in during to the Kosovo .
the government if is - he committed to increase the appropriation of the assistance aside to the programs traditional of education and of hygi?ne of basic , in held and place of the other programs who if inscriraient , to fair payments of elsewhere , in of other Each ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the role of the Canada on the scene international has took a importance of the more disadvantage through to our forces Armed .
we have without doubt more of military in service addition - sea today today that since the War of Korea .
our role in Equity of keeping of the peace has took enormous of magnitude .
I not have not had the time of read the report entitled : to Bilan of the assistance 2000 to , and I not know therefore not under what rubriques are Answers of such Estimates .
I have the Appendix that they not discuss not been group?es , to of the purposes budget , with the Estimates of assistance whose has spoke the Prime Minister , or with the initiatives contained in the speech of the Throne .
the Senator Andreychuk :
I could can - be enlighten the Minister .
the costs associated to the initiatives of keeping of the peace , the interventions military , the consolidation of the peace and the actions humanitarian , have been in good part then on the budget of the assistance .
the Estimates Answers under this Order have increased , then that those ensuing for of other programs of assistance have decreased .
I floor grateful to the Minister of consider of increase the assistance granted to the resolution of problems basic to the origin of the agitation in the country in development .
the assujettissement of the assistance foreign to the respect of the rights of the human - Position Position of the government
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
if is - he of a change of Position of the government Liberal ?
the Party Liberal has , by the past , denounced the assujettissement of the assistance to the rights of the human .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , not having not knowledge of the speech whose talking the Senator Andreychuk , I soul?verai the question deposited of the Minister responsible and apporterai a response to the hon. Senator soon that possible .
the business of the Senate
Order to the Rules
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , if I in had had the time during the period of the questions , I chair asked a question to the chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade .
the Senator in question not is not present , but I see the deputy - chairman and several members of the Committee of the Banking .
today today , the Senator Hervieux - Hervieux has presented a report of the Committee of the Banking who has been read and tabled .
I am went the examine and he not had not been certifi? as report of the Committee by the chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade .
the table to the office me have informed that they the had also noticed and had referred the report to the Senator Hervieux - Hervieux order that she the sign .
the deputy - chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade can - he we describe the nature of the meeting during of which he has been decided - if however that has been decided - that the Committee of the Banking ?tudierait the bill of bill S - 3 section by section ?
there he a account realized of this meeting ?
a motion has she been introduced and there he a account realized of this motion , Requesting to the chairman or to the deputy - chairman of present this report to the Senate ?
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , the response is yes .
the Senator Kinsella :
the deputy - chairman can - he explain why a other Senator that the chairman or the deputy - chairman , as the want the used and the use , has been appropriately for present the report to the Senate ?
the Senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , I not am not the Senator Kolber .
I not know not to what he has thought .
yesterday , my office has received a message me Requesting of present the report on the bill of bill , but I was party of Saskatoon for Ottawa and , as you the know , the trip takes any a day .
by therefore , I not have not answered to this request .
the first time that I have heard say that the report would presented today today , this is when the hon. Senator Hervieux - Hervieux the has mentioned .
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , to the page 14 of a publication of the Branch of the committees of the Senate dated of November 99 and entitled Introduction to the committees pleas , you explain how the reports must be Message to the Senate by a Committee .
you there said that , when the chairman of a Committee presented a report , the Committee declare that he has concluded the business that the Senate him had operated in his mandate .
in the case of a bill of bill , that includes the study section by section of the bill of bill .
the use means that the you request to the sin of the Committee when the report on the bill of bill will presented .
a member of the Committee presented then a motion to this about .
in giving the motion , the Committee give to the chairman the leave of present the report .
according this publication , the report is presented by the chairman or by a other member appropriately of the Committee .
in the absence of the chairman and of the deputy - chairman , I like determine the process who has been followed for that a other member of the Committee be therefore appropriately .
he must ensure the control of the process for know if yes or not the report of a Committee is in fact the report on which the majority of the members of the Committee if are heard .
this is a of the problems that I have with the report who has been tabled in this chamber more earlier to the during of the deliberations .
the other problem that I have is that I not know not to the fair - because that I not have not still the account realized - this that His Hon. has said to the time of the Presented of this report .
I believe that I have heard that the leave had been granted , but I know if that knowing referring to the deliberations who have had held here today today or to the decision who has been taken he there has someone time when the bill of bill has been referred to the Committee of the Banking .
you if asked to the then if he was referred to a Committee or two committees .
we must obtain of the clarification on these two questions .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I like answer to this point to the regulation .
I have listened the Senator Kinsella .
I know to the fair if he if concern of three questions or of a question .
he has all of first raised the question of the signing necessary on the bill of bill , and I believe understand that he if is view after have examined the bill of bill that he not dealt no signing .
if I not me read , this situation has been corrig?e since that you has discovered this mistake .
the second question introducing to know if the bill of bill has been well examined by the Committee .
I believe understand , to the light of the intervention of the Senator Tkachuk that , to his notice , a motion Authorize the referred of the bill of bill has been agreed .
the third question is of know if you has well appropriately a member of the Committee responsible of table the bill of bill , be the chairman , who not is not here and not could in do report , the deputy - chairman or a other member of the Committee , in fact , the sponsor of the bill of bill , the Senator Hervieux - Hervieux .
I not know not if that will to the conflict of the decency or of the procedures normal , but I pretend that not . A member of the Committee can table a report to the place of the chairman , when the deputy - chairman is present , even if you if expected normally to this that the deputy - chairman abhorrent in the absence of the chairman .
in this who respect the words of the chairman to the following of the Tabled of the report , I will the repeat .
you me in has Message a copy .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
you are well the only .
the Senator Hays :
you there Athens :
pursuant to the Order Special proposed with the leave of the Senate and adopted the 24 November and notwithstanding the subsection 97 ( 4 ) of the Rules , the bill of bill is now referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign .
I the have received in concerning to the Senate .
I believe understand that that creating to do in sort that this legislation legislative be consideration of way orderly , according the d?sirs of the Senate .
I trying of see to this that the bill of bill be examined to the time by the Committee of the Banking and by extend of the Affairs foreign in reason of the questions who have been raised by the senators relatively to the details of the bill of bill .
I not me pause however not on this question .
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the question is of know if the you can allow to a member of the Committee of table a report without the Authorized of the Committee , if this is well the case , then that this report is approved by the Committee .
the Committee has decided of do report of the bill of bill .
that I far , human not has seen the bill of report , can - be even not the chairman or the deputy - chairman .
by request of the decency and by respect for their position , he would onerous to the least that they grab the report or in embark the disclosure .
except mistake , this not was not the case , and her the Senator Hervieux - Hervieux not has not been officially Cabinet to table the report .
I request confirmation of these facts .
the Senator Tkachuk :
not , that not if is not fact .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
second , I not want not that we we enlisions in the procedure and I hope that we not considerations not here a precedent in mean the bill of bill to more of a Committee , but I not see not how the Speaker can be authorized to refer of a Committee to a other , to the step of the Affairs occasion , a report who not has even not been debated here .
I not see not the link that the Speaker can do .
that you me takes if I me wrong , but I supposais , after the two days of debate spent to this question , that the report would tabled here and that the Senate d?ciderait of his fate .
he if is of a report Use to the Senate and not to the Speaker .
I know this that you committed by to Order Special to .
you note , in transcript the debate , that he is said simply , as the Senator Hays the has explained the second day in rectifiant of the comments who not had not been properly transcrits in the account realized official , that the question party be referred to a place , then to the other .
the assumption was that , for go of a place to the other , he him needed be reconfirm? here .
the Speaker has acted in our behalf , without explanation or warning .
I have always believed that , to the across of the account , this was the Senate who d?cidait how he needed deal the bills of bill and the reports and where they altering go .
in this case - side , however , even if we want that the report strictly to the Committee of the Affairs foreign , that if is fact without that the Senate gave his word to say .
the Senate not has never had the opportunity of examine the report or of see this that he there had nuances .
the Senator Hays :
I like present a other observation to the about of the Order to the Rules , and more particularly of the concern stated by the Senator Staunton - Lynch , to know if the bill of bill party return here before of be referred to the Committee of the Affairs foreign or go to the Committee of the Affairs foreign after that the Committee of the Banking in report ran with him .
I not have not the or exactly before me , but I believe that the Speaker had interpretation that as transpired say that he boilers of first to the Committee of the Banking then that , a time that the Committee of the Banking in would ran with him , he boilers to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
we not have nothing said of more , and he is reasonable of interpret that as transpired say that he boilers directly to the Committee of the Affairs foreign a time that the Committee of the Banking in would ran with him .
he is also possible of interpret that to the way of the Senator Staunton - Lynch .
of any manner , I believe know that the Committee of the Affairs foreign not has not began his deliberations .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch means - he add someone something further to his desire that the question be now heard to the Senate rather that to the Committee of the Affairs foreign ?
the Senator Tkachuk :
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I suppose that we debating of a Order to the Rules , and all the world can take the speak regarding a Order to the Rules .
the Senator Tkachuk :
I not have not had the opportunity of ask to the Senator Vodrey , who as me is member of the Committee steering of the Committee of the Banking , if he knew that the Senator Hervieux - Hervieux had tabled the report to the House today today .
his Hon. the Speaker :
I am sorry , but the question to the Senator Vodrey not is not valid for the hour .
however , if he means there answer and if the Senate means well the hear , he not in keeps that to him .
the Senator Tkachuk :
he would can - be useful that I explain the reason of my approach .
the Senator Kinsella has raised a point interesting .
I not am here that since six years , but I have been chairman of the Committee of the Finance during a sure time , while that the Senator Kirby was chairman of the Committee of the Banking .
if I not brief not table a report , I told , in as that chairman , to the Senator De De of the do to my place .
when we not could or the a or the other be here , we force a other arrangement .
this is the even something with the Senator Kirby .
or well he Round the report , or well he me asked of the do to his place .
if we not had could the do or the a or the other , we we side heard on the human to designate for this do - if need was .
the Senator Kirby and me - even not had not of Committee steering .
we resolve to we two the Committee steering , and we we in tirions very well .
I me request if the Senator Vodrey the knew .
hence who we step of understand how he if fact that that if be product without that I in far nothing or not there appose my signing .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I not was not to the Chair , but I believe know that we are now before of two points to the regulation .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
they if ram?nent to a only .
your Hon. has decided during of the Affairs occasion - time where the you not can or contractual the Rules or raise a part of discussion without in have obtained the leave - of send to a other Committee a report of Committee who just all fair of be tabled .
the Rules provides that to the least a day must if allowed between the Tabled of a report and the third Reading .
in this case - side , of any obviously , we not could not move to the third Reading , but we not have even not could see the report .
I had hoped that , if Your Hon. party pay a decision , you the seen fact during of the Order of the day , referred case we gone could then receive a explanation regarding this decision exceptional .
in way , this not is not we who have created this situation .
in second held , the Senator Hervieux - Hervieux not having not been officially Cabinet by the Committee to present the report , the report has he indeed been presented in good and properly form ?
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , this point to the Rules includes several elements .
regarding the analysis of the bill of bill by the Committee of the Banking , his review section by section and his report to the Senate , I have been until to the table for consult the report tabled .
a report if there amorphous indeed , but he not dealt not the signing of the Senator who the had presented , this who has engagement in me a interrogation , to know what was the relative to follow .
the report not has been tabled or by the chairman or by the deputy - chairman .
to least that the proceedings - refer of the business of the Committee not refers that a other Senator has been responsible of the present - and I not the have not under the eyes - , I not know too if the report has been tabled to the Senate in good and properly form or not .
the other question , who is unusual , and all the world in agree , keeps to the fact that , by Order of the Senate , the report must be sent to two committees rather that to a only .
the decision of the do examine by the Committee of the Banking if expliquait by a series of concerns raised to the step of the second Reading and who concernaient of the questions tax , this who 1 all to fact to the skills of the Committee of the Banking .
we should study the report of the Committee of the Banking before of refer the bill of bill to the Committee of the Affairs foreign because that he is possible that he there gave a link between the problems of tax that has internally the Committee of the Banking and the questions related to the Affairs foreign - including , the questions Impediment to the rights of the human who have fact part of the points internally to the step of the second Reading .
all these questions should be examined .
honourable senators , he is possible that we harm of way a little premature .
a report only has been tabled .
we not the have not examined .
he there , to my notice , a link substantial between the analysis of the report and the analysis of the bill of bill , who would then referred to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
this is this who me has prompting to me questions on the acceptability of the question .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I have already said this that I thought of the acceptability of the work merit by the Committee of the Banking and the question aired by the Senator Staunton - Lynch .
however , I find the argument of the Senator Kinsella very interesting .
for this who is of the day - I not sometimes not to back the labour on the account realized of the deliberations of this day - there - of the members of the two committees have articulate the desire of if dealt on the question , particularly in reason of the nature of the bill of bill and of a of the elements of the bill of bill who has relates to the rights of the human .
we have tried of do in sort that the bill of bill be referred to two committees successivement .
the Committee of the Banking if would focused on the Prime bill of bill .
the words that we have used then were in tomorrow of follows .
the question is the next : that fact the Senate or how treating he the product of the work of the Committee ?
my interpretation of the statements to this about and of all the things that we have made until here , on the fact that the report not gave not been signed and on the question of know if he is consistent to the Rules or not that a member of the Committee other that the chairman or the deputy - chairman presented a report without a motion enable - and I conclusion that that not step not a barrier - this is that we want that the bill of bill be referred to two committees and that the reports of the two committees we era for be studied in even time .
if that is fact , the Senator Kinsella not will more held of if sort .
r?trospectivement , I conclusion that the suggestions of the hon. Senator were can - be the manner dropping of proceed - this is - to - say that we not gone can - be not should refer the bill of bill to the two committees the a after the other .
however , since we have consulted therefore , this who sometimes is exactly this that we find do for reach to the result liked , to know have before we the work of the two committees order of power the examine .
gold , for do that , we must have the two reports before we in even time .
his Hon. the Speaker :
there has he someone other hon. Senator who wish take the speak to the about of the point to the Rules ?
if , I will take the question in advisement .
I not was not here the week last when the question has been raised for the first time and I not have not heard all the arguments .
however , I like remind to the senators that when a bill of bill is referred to a Committee , this last must do a report .
no amendment and no motion not are tabled to this time .
he not there has not of discussion .
this is the situation who prevails to the hour current .
however , I will me dealt on the question and I you in rendrai account soon that possible .
Order OF orders
the business of the Senate
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
we spend now to the Affairs of the government and I like , to the behalf of the senators of the party defeated , call the Prime section for consideration , be the report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology Authorize on the bill of bill C - 6 .
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
Adopted of the report of the Committee
the Senate proceeded to the study of the fourth report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology ( bill of bill C - 6 , Act designed to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of means electronic for communicate or registering of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the Instruments regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws ) , tabled more earlier today today .
- honourable senators , to payments of sponsor of the bill of bill C - 6 and of chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology who has already spent many of time to the study of the about treaty in the bill therein C - 6 .
my comments today today conservation primarily on the bill of bill in General , but also and more particularly on the amendments to the bill of bill who are proposed in the report of the Committee tabled to the Senate more earlier this after - afternoon .
in the context of the economy World , the information is become a marchandise important and valuable .
then that before the governments were viewed as the major washrooms and choose of information personal , of our days , the sector private plays a role of more in more important in this field .
since the frameworks of networks as Internet , the disclosure and the distribution of the information personal is become a source of concern for the Canadians who concerned of see their life privacy if r?tr?cir to legislation that these networks if extends .
to the Canada , the government federal and the most of the governments provincial have already of the laws who inconsistent of the raising , of the use and of the disclosure of information personal by the sector private , but only the Quebec has unamended a bill on the protection of the information personal who governs the sector private .
some organizations have adopted of the codifies Voluntary relatively to the raising and to the use of the information personal , but the use of these codifies not is not widespread and not is not brutes of a coast to the other .
in 1996 , the government federal if is committed to develop a bill for protect the information personal collected by the sector private .
the objective of the government was then of legislation before the beginning of the year 2000 .
the bill of bill C - 6 broadsides of this commitment .
a bill of bill who objective to protect the information personal must necessarily hold account of the right of a human of know and of accept that of the information to his about will collected , used or released to some purposes .
the bill of bill C - 6 intended the balance between of the objectives conflictuels , to know , of a share , this right of a human of encouraging to provide of the information and of understand why of the information are collected and how they will used and , of other share , the need of ensure a operating adequate and efficient of the economy .
honourable senators , to the exception of the only amendment proposed in the report of the Committee , I can you ensure that the study of the bill of bill C - 6 in Committee has shown that he if is of a legislation legislative remarkable .
the government has product a real Leader - of implement on the trade Electronic .
the bill of bill annual this difficult balance between the world of the Affairs and the interests of the consumers .
fair , honourable senators , I not have never seen a bill of bill that the businesses that the groups of consumers are all many impatients of see adopted .
all the representatives of businesses , of consumers , of firmes technological , of companies of insurance , of Banking , and even of assessment of the credit , who have appeared before the Committee have calling the Adopted quick of the bill of bill .
all these stakeholders suitable that he represents a together fair and reasonable of practices of information .
in effect , of the witnesses of all the sectors of the economy Canadian , to the exception of the sector of the health , have employee of the looks as to balance delicate to , to result of years and of months of negotiating to , to very good consensus to , and cetera , for describe this bill of bill and ask his Adopted with haste .
the witnesses who have adopted this point of view understood not only of the representatives of the sector of the businesses , but also , by example , of the advocates of the rights civilians and of the expert in protection of the information personal .
by therefore , honourable senators , if this bill of bill is also good that I just of the say , why the Committee there has he proposed a amendment ?
this is to this question that I believe duty spend the major part of my comments .
this is because that , in despite of the support massive of the businesses and of the consumers , a sector very important if objects to the unanimously to his Adopted , for the moment .
short , a sector , extend of the health , is all many unanimous in his Opposition to the bill of bill .
he is clear that the together of the sector of the health not knowing not part of the admirable consensus whose I have spoke he there has a moment .
in effect , even to the within of this sector , he not there has absolutely no consensus on this that should be the good solution , in this sense that he not if is not presented as a group homog?ne who r?clamait a together precise of amendments .
he has calling all sorts of amendments .
let - me of you give few examples for illustrate the situation .
some witnesses have recommended that the information on the health ensure completely excluded of the bill of bill .
of other , as the door - speak of the Association medical Canadian and of the Association dental Canadian , felt that the bill of bill not prot?geait not enough the information personal on the health .
of other if unleashing if the provisions Impediment to the consent were expertise since they not parlaient not specifically of consentements informed and real .
all the members of the sector of the health who have appeared before the Committee had of the doubts further to the scope and to the application of the bill of bill .
the concerns that I have presented sch?matiquement , honourable senators , come of sector very various , by example of the doctors , of the dentists , of the pharmaciens , of the nurses , of the hospitals , of the laboratories medical , the sector of the research medical , the departments provincial of the Health , the responsible of the accreditation of the services of health , and cetera .
to say true , honourable senators , no of the groups of the environment of the health who have appeared before the Committee or him have fact reach a memory not was favourable to the Adopted of the bill of bill in his form current .
the Committee has also been contravenes by the testimony of many representatives of the sector of the health who have said not not have played a role seriously in the consultation who have preceded the Tabled of the bill of bill .
some of between them have even said to the Committee that they had release with the responsible Government he not there has hardly that eight or nine months , and that they if were fact answer that he not there had not held of if sort of this bill of bill because that he dealt in fact on the trade Electronic and not on the sector of the health .
by therefore , honourable senators , the consensus if admirable that the Minister has succeeded to initiative in very little of time in the rest of the economy , be approximately 18 months , not predecessor not the sector of the health because that the bill of bill party bringing on the trade Electronic .
he if obviously that you not has not thought on the suddenly to include the sector of the health among those who altering play a role essential in the negotiations .
of many services of health are to the reminder of the state , but the persons and the organizations who the fournissent excursions can 3.2 to the sector private , to the sector public or still to the sector of the volunteerism .
he there therefore of the links many more strong between sector public and sector private that this not is the case in someone other field of the economy Canadian .
gold , honourable senators , the sector of the care of health hesitant many to take the bill of bill such that he is .
in fact , the Minister of the Industry has seconded implicitement this reaching when he has appeared before the Committee of the Affairs Social , Thursday last , to comments of the application of the bill of bill C - 6 to the information on the health and has said that , in the three years following the entry in force of the bill of bill , his impact on the sector of the care of health would limited .
he has supported that this impact would so limited that she not certificate mention of delay the application of this bill of bill for clarify his impact on the sector of the care of health .
honourable senators , the members of the Committee have including the arguments of the Minister , have including the facts on capably they were based , and in are yet upon to a conclusion totally different .
the Committee continues of fear that this bill of bill of trade Electronic not gave of the effects high obscurs and unforeseen ; more important still , the Committee like particularly know the nature likely of these effects high .
in effect , the impact likely of the bill of bill on the sector of the care of health is far of be clear .
if he is true , as the has fact argue the Minister , that the bill of bill not will of the impact that on a intake part of the sector of the care of health in the three first years following his proclamation , he is therefore possible , during a sure time , of clarify the effects that he will on the information particularly exposure and personal on the health of the people , without jeopardizing his impact on the vast sector commercial who rest .
since , with this amendment , the bill of bill not will of the impact on the sector public of the care of health that three years after his entry in force , we giving to the government and to the parties appointed the possible of develop of the rules and of the regulations who garantiront to the Canadians that the information personal on their health will treaties properly by the stakeholders of the environment of the health .
honourable senators , account held of this possible and of the fact that all the other sectors of the economy Canadian were unanimous to add that the bill of bill be adopted quickly , the Committee if is then asked if he there had a way of give satisfaction to those who souhaitaient a Adopted quick of the bill of bill , all in answering to the reserves address by the sector of the care of health .
the Committee has rejected to the unanimously the idea of exempt fully to the application of the bill of bill on the protection of the information personal the sector of the care of health , as the have proposed some witnesses .
he has however felt timely of include a brief period order of determine if he is possible of arrive to a consensus on the changes to contribute to the bill of bill for pay his impact on the sector of the care of health fair and fair .
Thursday last , we have heard different witnesses representative the sector of the care of health .
of any obviously , they if are concert?s before of come testify , because they have all proposed exactly the even amendment ; they have all proposed of expect five years before of opt the sector of the care of health to the provisions of the bill of bill .
account held of the importance capital of the information personal in Equity of health and of the need that these last ensure protected by the bill on the protection of the information personal , the Committee believe that five years , this is well too long .
we have deliberation rather for a deadline of a year after the proclamation , or of two years to rely of the day where the bill of bill receives the Assent Royal .
the Minister has already said that the bill not will proclaimed that a year after have received the Assent Royal , of sort that our proposal is that the deadline be of two years after the Assent Royal or of a year after the proclamation .
to our notice , a deadline of two years should be sufficient for allow to the parties interested of the sector of the health and to the officials of the departments of the Health and of the Industry of in arrive to a consensus on the changes to contribute to the bill of bill for that he push effectively on the sector of the health and for concerning a good part of the uncertainty who the surrounding now .
we believe also , honourable senators , that the structure of our amendment presented a important advantage on the plan of the negotiating .
in effect , we propose , in this amendment , that if , two years after the Assent Royal or a year after the proclamation , no consensus not if is improve and that no amendment not gave been introduced , the bill of bill such that wording canola in force in the sector of the health .
by therefore , honourable senators , we believe that this legislation incentive mod?r?ment the sector of the health to in arrive to a consensus order of avoid all the problems whose he said if sort .
the fact of impose a date limit to which the bill of bill enters in force to least that a consensus not be reached would a average very effective .
I must say , honourable senators , that the Committee has fact a work remarkable in a very short laps of time .
we have had many of p.m. of hearings .
we have entendu25 witnesses , this who is to little almost the half of the people who had asked to the departure to be heard .
in the last days of the hearings , of other persons if are presented in Requesting to be heard .
he is therefore became obvious for the Committee that , if we wanted find a solution acceptable to the problem of the sector of the health in bearing the bill of bill to the Senate until to this that a solution n?goci?e can be appropriately , he should many of time .
if we had chosen this seaway , the bill of bill not become not bill and he not if apply not to all the other sectors of the economy Canadian who the wish .
by therefore , we have felt that the something logical to do was of not not delay the application of the bill to all the sectors of the economy who wish that the bill of bill be adopted , but of in delay the application to a only sector and during a year only after the proclamation .
this are there , honourable senators , the manipulation of the report .
if you want a analysis more detailed of the evidence heard by the Committee , who , to my notice , hand in the sense of the findings of the Committee I you refer to the second part of the report of the Committee , who has been tabled to the Senate yesterday .
I urge the honourable senators to read this part of the report .
I the repeat , we feel that a postponement of a year after the proclamation , be two years after the Assent Royal , allow the held of negotiations very pointues between the departments of the Health and of the Industry and the sector of the health .
in ending , honourable senators , I like also speak of the Act on the protection of the information personal .
he has underlined that he there had of the 1954 unambiguous between the bill therein C - 6 and the Act on the protection of the information personal .
by example , according the Act on the protection of the information personal , you can if contact to the Court federal only in the case where the access to of the issues has been refused .
the complaints regarding the raising , the use or the communication of information by a institution government not can do the subject of a referred before the Court federal .
yet , to the words of the bill of bill C - 6 , the complaints regarding the raising , the use or the communication of information by the sector private can do the subject of a appeal before the Court federal .
honourable senators , in as that parliamentarians , he will without say that we must impose to the institutions governmental and to the institutions private the same requirements in Equity of protection of the life privacy .
the Committee in is came to the conclusion that , if the bill of bill C - 6 Year in force , he should put to day the Act on the protection of the information personal for that the institutions governmental and the institutions private ensure to the least covered to the same requirements in Equity of protection of the information personal .
always on this question , honourable senators , if the bill of bill advocating a program of education of the public by the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy and if the faults bill C - 6 imposes of new responsibilities and widening substantially the mandate of the High to the protection of the life privacy , he will of itself , still a time , that a part inherent of the report of the Committee recommends of appropriating of the resources additional to the High to the protection of the life privacy for that he if constitutes of his mandate expanded .
in ending , honourable senators , I attention that the Committee has tried of establish a balance such that the application of this bill of bill to the vast majority of the economy Canadian - or to the more great number of sectors economic - if limited without delay and that , for a period very brief , say a year after the proclamation of the bill of bill , this application not toucherait not the sector of the care of health in the hope that , in the 24 months subs?quents , we could arrive to a solution n?goci?e regarding this bill of bill .
hence , honourable senators , in what context if ranges the bill of bill .
the amendment has been adopted to the unanimously to the Committee .
no Senator not has articulate of opinion dissidente regarding the amendment proposed .
by therefore , honourable senators , I you invite to adopt the report of the Committee .
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
the hon. Senator agree - he of answer to a question ?
the Senator Kirby :
yes .
the Senator Oliver :
you have said all to the long of your intervention that he not there had that a sector who not knowing not the subject of a consensus and that this was the sector of the care of health .
you have also said that a part of the response r?sidait in the fact that he is designed as a bill of bill on the trade Electronic and not on the care of health .
that is - this who is went of across and what lesson can learn the Senate of this process ?
how can - you if ensure that that not if again not ?
we hostility there a bill of bill and we the throw to the other House .
that is - this who is went of across during this process ?
the Senator Kirby :
I not can that surfacing of the assumptions on that .
your question is excellent .
you flavour that we we are muscle on the substance of the bill of bill and on the reaction that she raises home the people , met given the little of time whose we horses and our desire of complete quickly our study .
this that I me furthered to say is learned of various citations of evidence rather that of a conclusion detailed .
first , the bill of bill has all of first been a bill of bill on the trade Electronic and on the protection of the information personal in the trade Electronic .
when you think to the trade Electronic , you not think not immediately to the sector of the care of health to the Canada , because he is subventionn? by the state .
this is normally this that the you think .
if we find quote all the sectors related to the trade Electronic , even if we Pension to the sector of the care of health , the most of between we the ?carteraient .
you can therefore understand that he not gave not been to the Prime plan of the negotiations robust .
the second something who topic the bill of bill is that he if applies to the activities trade of the sector private .
of new , when you think to the activities trade , you not is not inclined to thinking headwind to the sector of the care of health .
however , when you is stuck of reflect to the question , you takes conscience of the fact that of the laboratories and other have of the activities trade .
however , when the question of the activities trade is raised for the first time , you not think not immediately that he there has a great number of companies trade in the sector of the care of health .
finally , he there has a factor in the field of the health who not there nowhere share elsewhere : a great number of institutions public and private business of the services identiques .
the laboratories business a example patent .
he there has also of the services of praxith?rapie and of the services of diagnosed .
we not accurate not that they are different , because this are the same people who pay the note .
also , I believe that that has been a oversight of good faith .
he agreeable can - be of note that when this bill of bill has been examined by the Committee of the industry of the House of the Commons - and for show the interest that this bill of bill has engagement , I wish to you attention that he there has had 18 days of hearings there - above - you has spent very little of time to the health because the witnesses not had not asked to appear before the Committee .
you has many more spoke of the care of health before the Committee Senate that before the Committee of the House , this who not is in nothing a criticism of the Committee of the House .
human in the sector of the health not had including that this bill of bill would of important impact in this sector .
in part , then that you between in of new areas commercial as the trade Electronic and the rest , the barriers traditional between the various sectors of the economy if effondrent .
to the future , when we undergo of the bills of bill dealing these new types of systems of communication , this that the trade Electronic is in fact , we satisfied ensure to adopt of the measures review and to consolidate all the involved .
I not think not that who that this be should be to blame , because he not there has not of whipping whipping .
honourable senators , a series of things if are summoning here by inadvertent .
this is a excellent bill of bill , but the Committee think that he is statement if attack to this problem .
by against , if you adopt the bill of bill without amendment , you imposes a bill of bill to a sector important of the society Canadian to the conflict of the wishes of all the organizations of the society .
we believe that this not is probably not a good way of establish the policy public .
the Senator Oliver :
that me brings to my second question .
a sure number of witnesses of the sector of the health who have appeared have said that a solution possible for them extract to annexer their Code such that prepared or amended .
can - you we explain why the Committee not has not agreed these representations filter of a sure number of witnesses of the field medical ?
the Senator Kirby :
yes .
this is a good question .
the better example is extend of the Association medical Canadian , who had said that we should integrate his Code to the bill of bill .
the problem , this is that you not can the do quickly .
why clerical the Code of the Association medical Canadian and not not extend of the Association of the dentists or of the pharmaciens ?
each has his Code of protection of the information personal .
soon the moment where you posez this question , you embarquez in the process detailed of negotiations and of institution of a consensus who is required , as I the have said .
the Committee has concluded that , well that you can act of the sort , that 7.6 clearly several months .
we have therefore draft the Adopted of the bill of bill relatively to the sectors of the economy where all is in the Order and of spend the 24 months following to the institution of a consensus .
he is true that several of the agencies professionals and institutionnels have mentioned that they persons already a Code of protection of the information personal , of sort that the members of the Committee envisageaient with optimism the possible that the you can develop , to the during of this period of 24 months , to departure of these various codifies , a together of codifies who carelessly consensus and who if apply to the sector of the care of health .
to our notice , he was preferable of act of the sort rather that of take the Code of the a of the groups , then of the adopt and of the apply to all .
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I reprends there where the senators Oliver and Kirby have stopped .
first , the people of the sector of the health we have in General said that they not have not participated to the development of the Code of the Association Canadian of normalisation on which the bill of bill is based .
second , as the Senator Kirby the has mentioned , some of between them feel that a member of the government their has left bode that the bill of bill not if apply not to the sector of the care of health .
in reality , he seems that he not if applies not to of extensive pans of the sector of the health , be the consistently to not commercial to , there including to the links professionals between the patient and the doctor , the patient and the Hospital , and cetera .
what that he in be , when you cherchez to clumsily the activities trade of the activities not trade in the sector of the health , he becomes very difficult of determine where and how changed the bill of bill .
these two factors have been strong important in this who respect the sector of the health .
further to the possible of publish the Code of language of the doctors and of the dentists or of someone other profession in Printed to the bill of bill , I must say that I have been greatly tried of the propose .
to the Reading of these codifies , he is clear that they make a together of standards rather higher to the Code editor of a consensus of the Association Canadian of normalisation .
I believe however that , even if we had decided of the do , we we side incurred in ground constitutional very little course .
you would left hear that we wanted legislation and regulate to the regard of the professions , a field who falls in the most of the case of the jurisdiction exclusive of the provinces .
honourable senators , he is needless for me of try of add what that this be to this that we have heard of the share of the chairman of the Committee under form of explanation , of context or of excuse for the amendment whose we are before .
his intervention to this regard has been complete and specific , and I me outline of say that I am fully of agreed with all this that he has said .
I hope that the amendment related gain the approval of the Senate and finally of the government and of the House of the Commons .
I happiest however of the opportunity for thank the chairman of the Committee of we have led to good port and with success , until to present , all to the long of a review very carefully of a legislation legislative very important to which we have spent a 20 of p.m. .
I the thank of we have wishes to a solution ; well that she not gave can - be not been the solution hurling of all those who have appeared before the Committee or even of all the members of the Committee , she represents however a compromise hon. and practice who , I the repeat , related gain the approval of the Senate and of the government .
the task not has not been easy for him , and we all , members of the Committee , appr?cions his patience and his leadership .
I the repeat , I not add nothing to the explanation and to the context that he we has presentations regarding the sector of the health .
I wish however to attention a other aspect of the bill of bill .
this not is not a point on which the Committee if is sir , but he if is of a something who me concern many .
I you the attention only for you ask of there reflect this night because I have the intention of there return to the step of the third Reading order of propose all probably a amendment .
honourable senators , according a clause of this bill of bill , of the information very personal collected by of the businesses trade in the framework of their activities can be releases 20 years after the Late of the persons in question .
to my notice , this clause is ind?fendable and , if I the can , I hear propose that she be obsolete of the bill of bill to the time of his third Reading .
I have asked to various witnesses who have appeared before the Committee - of the Minister to the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy , in way by all sorts of advocates of the rights to the protection of the information personal - of justify the well - based of this clause , and no of them not has could the do .
the only explanation that they have could give , this is that he there a clause 60 in the Act on the protection of the information personal , a clause who treating of the information collected by the government federal and his agencies .
he can ceased someone reason valid , in the policy government , for include a such clause in this who has relates to the information collected by the government - I the know and I like there return more later - , but I not can imagine no ground justified of communicate , to someone time that this be , of the information personal on of the cartes of credit , on a mortgage , on of the accountability banking or on a file of pharmacie , who are collected by of the organizations trade to of the purposes trade .
of any obviously , the bill of bill treating already of the possible of investigate on a crime , of ensure the security national and therefore of following .
you we has said : to Ces information not can not be releases .
he must have a reason of the do .
can - be the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy could - he speak to a sure time . to
all that is very subjectif , particularly 20 years after the Late of the persons in question .
a lawyer who has appeared before we , Mr. Lawson , whose I have spoke yesterday , and who is , as the most of the people who have appeared before we , a defender advocate of the bill of bill , has said that , according him , the right to the protection of the life privacy not should if apply that to the persons breathing .
I am all to fact against this idea and I am of notice that we should the reject .
I not want not studying on the speech that I bring probably tomorrow after - afternoon , but I like you in give a before - taste .
I want that you sagacity that I you saisirai of this clause and I invite the colleagues to me provide a excuse detailed , if they the can .
if , I you inviterai to you join to me for amend the bill of bill to the step of the third Reading of way to remove this clause .
honourable senators , as I the have mentioned to the second Reading , in big , this is a bill of bill who considerable and deserves of benefit of the support of all to the House and across to the country among those who are to the aware .
this is that he ?tendra the protection of the Act on the protection of the information personal to the great amount of information personal that the businesses trade tribute on each of we in the framework of their transactions .
to the exception of the clause whose I have spoke all to the hour , all allows of believe that these measures of protection are solid and effective .
as the Senator Kirby we the has said , this bill of bill is the evolved of a consensus extraordinary referred are upon the sector private , the government federal , the various groups of Defence of the protection of the life privacy and the groups of Defence of the freedoms fundamental .
the government can to fair payments be proud of have known enable this consensus .
for all those and all those who believe , and I think that the most of between we in are , that the protection of the life privacy fact part integral of the dignity and of the self human and that this is a right human , he if is of a step major .
I believe that in giving the bill of bill we regards substantially improved the measures of protection and the framework legal of the rights human in this country .
all the Canadians not are can - be not to the aware of this that we are in considering of debate and of do today today , but I think that this bill of bill amended will the a of the accomplissements historic of this Parliament or of the past Parliaments .
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator Murray and the Senator Kirby for the excellent work that they have fact in this who respect this bill of bill .
the Senator Murray not is not normally member of the Committee but , as he the has said more earlier in his intervention , this is a legislation legislative to which he if is always interested .
well that in principle that not be not expected in the Rules of the Senate of the Canada , our Committee steering was composed of four members .
the Senator LeBreton , the Senator Kirby and me - even have associated the Senator Murray to our discussions in reason of the interest deep that he door to this legislation legislative .
as the Senator Kirby and the Senator Murray , I support in General the bill of bill C - 6 .
I support also the amendment without no contingency .
that int?ressera can - be the Senator Murray and the Senator Kirby of know that you just fair of me delivering a letter filter of the Association dental Canadian .
the association not love not particularly this amendment .
she wanted that we seeing in a other leadership .
his representatives we have asked to the meeting of the Committee of strengthen the bill .
they have said that the Association dental Canadian had always been in favour of the Adopted of the bill of bill C - 6 , easier of the amendments who assureraient a more great protection of the information personal that the provisions of the Code CSA , in requiring the consent enlightened of the interested .
I am of agreed with them .
I souhaiterais me also strengthen this protection .
the impasse before which if was found the Committee was due to the question of the consent .
if we had developed of side all the other aspects of the bill of bill for not deal that of the exercise for the health community of a protection increased of the life privacy , I not think not , honourable senators , that we gone could adopt the less clause of this bill of bill before can - be six months .
our amendment had for subject of speed the Adopted and the application of the sections dealing of the trade Electronic in outside of the framework of the health .
between - time , we could take the time of reflect , not not necessarily to the Senate , but in the framework of talks with the sector of the health , the sector of the industry , the ministers of the Health and of the Industry and their officials respective .
all these parties commission number could put to the point of the changes who number licences to this text of answer to the needs and objectives of the industry of the care of health .
honourable senators , this question if is stiff to the centre of my concerns for the length of our study of the bill of bill .
some witnesses not have treaty that of the sections regarding the trade Electronic .
they constituency the industry of the technology , the ordinatique in someone sort , the sector of the Banking , the sector of the marketing , and they were all supportive to the bill of bill , not formulant that of the objections minor regarding his substance .
in fact , they there expressed with enthusiasm .
they if are helpfulness of the achievement monumental that had been the fact of have ralli? the consensus of all these groups to the about of the Code of the CSA .
the members of the Committee not have not eighth to pointed that he not there had not consensus in the sector medical .
the doctors and the dentists have supported that their own codifies were senior to the model of the CSA .
the pharmaciens , for their share , and those who tribute of the information on the services of health decades a exemption total .
for my share , I not was not interested to the their give .
if they want use or sell my information personal , I better have my word to say on the information who their tomberont between the hands .
fact more important still , we not have never discussed of two questions cruciales , be the definitions of the looks to activity commercial to and to consent enlightened to .
I have been vehemence of hear the Commissioner to the protection of the information personal affirming that all the consentements are of the consentements chew .
despite all the respect that I must to Bruce Phillips , I not am not of this notice .
if you me dragged in a Room of emergency where I me groups before five doctors and 16 other members of the staff who me say that I have need of some interventions Medical of emergency , I will sign not important what .
I hope that those who able have to if deal to my place signeront not important what for that I consult the care necessary .
but this not is not a consent enlightened .
I not known not the effects high of the treatment pr?conis? and , to the extension , I not me in concern not angry .
the question of the definitions not has not been clear consideration , in this who respect the information personal in Equity of health .
I support therefore without reserves the recommendation of the Committee transpired that we pr?voyions a deadline for study some of these problems .
honourable senators , he must acculer the parties in because to the foot of the Dickie .
the members of the Committee have heard of the evidence varying and who s?ment the confusion .
he must of the time for define of the rules clear divesting the information personal in Equity of health after have had of the trade with all those who tribute or use these information .
he not enough not of delay of two years the entry in force of the bill of bill for achieve our objective .
the Canadians deserve that of the lines guidelines clear cover the use of their file medical and indiscriminately including their consent enlightened to this effect .
the Canadians not wish not , for the most , that their file medical be sufficient to the point that he not can not serve to of the research designed to find a ahead to a illness or to a affection .
if this information is necessary for test of new pharmacare , he met find then a balance .
a such balance not there not in this bill of bill .
we can only hope that this balance will found through to our reflection and to this amendment .
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I have a brief question to ask .
I in have caring the Senator Carstairs more earlier today today .
I not have not examined the bill of bill also carefully that I chair should the do and I not have not took knowledge of the evidence .
however , in listening the argumentations , I me request if the you not should not have for policy public of mixed the identity of the human whose the information is required of the content of this information .
by example , the Princess Assiniboine Hospital , to Toronto , treating each year 60 100,000 women afflicted of the cancer of the within .
to side , the clinical of the cancer of the within of the Mount Sinai Hospital receives 25 100,000 women by year .
this is therefore that in this p?rim?tre of someone 92 metres , 85 100,000 delay are soign?es each year for the cancer of the within .
the information to this about is currently recueillie and collig?e deposited of the researchers and diagnosticiens and regroup?e in of the points centraux .
of huge progress have been earned , to all the least , in the treatment of the cancer of the within .
that met said , if the you means draw a treatment , the content of the information is indissociable of the progress obviously by the sector of the research .
if this information not was not recueillie , collig?e and tri?e , the fight against this terrible illness that is the cancer of the within not progresserait not .
the even reaching worth also for the HIV or any illness who we tragedy .
I not have not too including if the Committee or the amendment keeps account of this question fundamental .
in reality , att?nue you the problem or difficult you the task of the researchers who must have access to this information for the advancement of the research ?
to the held of improve the situation , not are - we not in considering of pay vaine the research ?
the Senator Carstairs :
honourable senators , you received can - be involved of learn that we have heard the evidence of two groups of researchers whose the opinions divergent on this question .
a group is of notice that he must establish more of measures of control for protect the life privacy of the persons who fournissent the information .
the other group believe that the research of this nature not must absolutely not be schemes to the provisions of the bill of bill .
he believes that these measures of control provoqueraient the scenario assistance that the hon. Senator just of record relatively to the inability of produce the information cope necessary .
the hon. Senator has explained our dilemma .
we have heard of the presentations very seriously of witnesses who we have said that this bill of bill tortuous the raising of data of research as similar that has submitted the hon. Senator .
of other have claimed that he not visiting not to the raising .
of this manner , we not porterons not emotional to the research .
our researchers have fact of the good work to this regard in the past .
of jump argue that anyone not means not participate to a bill of research should have the right of refuse that his work lost to situation bill .
he must therefore draw of the protocoles .
frankly , however , he we must of the time for the do .
the Senator Grafstein :
honourable senators , if this bill of bill give held to a dilemma , why if sponsored ?
why we believe - we forced of study this bill of bill if some of his supporters grow of seriously doubts to his regard ?
the Senator Carstairs :
the problem with this bill of bill , Senator Grafstein , this is that , of way general , human - and certainly human to the House of the Commons - not if is focused on the impact of the information in Equity of health on the bill of bill .
the Senator Grafstein :
still of the work b?cl? to the other place .
the Senator Carstairs :
they have fact a work b?cl? to the other place .
be said in any justice however , they not the have not fact deliberately .
the stakeholders of the sector of the health have them - same called the Department of the Industry .
they him have said : to This bill of bill respect the trade Electronic .
he not has not of effect on we . to
by therefore , the representatives of the health who number normally appeared before we to the beginning of the process not the have not fact because that they felt that the bill of bill not would not of effect on them .
this not is that in May or in June of this year , after the study of the bill of bill to the other place , that the stakeholders of the health are scarce enough worried for say : to This bill of bill will of the effects on we .
fortunately that he there has a second House , a House of reflection , because we can now go him airing our point of view . to
and this is exactly this that they have fact .
that met said , the bill of bill treating without doubt to 90 per of trade Electronic , and almost not of the sector of the health .
you there find of interesting changes securing the protection of the information personal in the field of the trade by Internet therefore that the Exchange and the Electronic of information on Internet .
these measures should enter in force soon that possible .
I not like not delay all the process to because of this window that , I the hope , we have met and by which a wind of renewal sweep for that we can continue of examine the question and , can - be , impose of the changes supportive in this who respect the information in Equity of health public .
his Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
with division
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted to the majority . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill , such that amended , for the second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Kirby , the third Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
the bill on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Adopted of the report of the Committee
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Milne , seconded by the hon. Senator Chalifoux , seconded to the Adopted of the second report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional ( bill of bill C - 7 , Act amend the Act on the stopped judicial and a other bill in consequential , with of the amendments ) , presented to the Senate the 30 November 99 .
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , I attempt of be short .
I not have not the intention of repeating the exploration of the components of this bill of bill .
I rise the speak today today for support the Adopted of the second report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional regarding the bill of bill C - 7 .
he is obvious , honourable senators , that when he if is of abuse sexual others of the children or of the persons vulnerable , he must act handcuff .
a abuse sexual in is a of too .
the consequences are serious and we must do all this who is in our power as parliamentarians for avoid that of such events not if occur .
I like shown today today the need for the Parliament federal of adopt the bill of bill C - 7 , in me piece to a case of abuse sexual injury more earlier this year on three children in a victim of the Quebec .
I not nommerai not the city , because that the accusations criminal are pendantes .
I attempt many that do if can of not not too identify the circumstances nominatives of this question criminal , but I want trying when even of you the present all in complying the rules parliamentarians .
in 1985 , a man well in view of a city Quebec creates a victim .
he if is of the single victim of this community stretch to closest of Montreal .
the 22 November last , he is stopped and accused of abuse sexual on three fillettes of four years who him had been confi?es .
left in freedom the even day , he is stopped of new the next for be business on the site of the victim and for have spoke to of the ?ducatrices of the victim , and therefore of have contrevenu to the conditions of his implementation in freedom .
this is the Branch of the protection of the Youth who has alert? the police municipale after have received a phase of parents who association the services of the victim .
this who has developed the gun to the poudres to the Quebec , this is that you has discovered recently that this even individual , in 1992 , had been found found and had received a condemnation with sentence for of the actions similar .
to the then , human , in the city where he had created the victim , even the services of police , not had been developed to the aware of the history criminals of the requ?rant .
the Leader of police of the community in question where if find the victim not has took knowledge of the history criminals of the individual that the 26 October last , therefore few days before that the actions of charge not ensure distinct against the individual in question .
honourable senators , these events have fall several remous in the society and the media Quebec to the during of the two or three past weeks .
the Minister Quebec licensing to the famille , Ms L , has should answer to the accusations of laxisme who were directed against his Department in this who has relates to the process of audit of the history criminals of the owners of victim during of the Building of a licences of operation for this type of activity .
for avoid that the parents who envoient their children in the garderies assured not lose confidence in the system of granting of the licences of operation of a victim , the Minister of the S?curit? public , Mr. M?nard , has announced , the 25 November last , a plan of action for correct this situation .
this last provides a more great cooperation between the Department of the famille and the S?ret? of the Quebec for that the history judicial of all the choose of licences of garderies ensure audited for avoid that of the case as extend whose I you have relat? the facts more earlier not if occur .
the even day , the Minister licensing to the famille has also announced of the measures additional for answer to the concerns raised by a member Liberal of the Assembly national , Mr. Copeman .
this last had asked to the government , the 25 November last , during of the period of the questions to the Assembly national , if the measures of checks of the history judicial if ?tendaient to the 12 100,000 workers Quebec of the system of the garderies .
according the Minister L , a new mechanism of control should be developed in place of here the beginning of the year next , therefore in few days , for check the ant?c?dent judicial of the 12 100,000 workers of garderies of the Quebec .
a part of this responsibility enrich of the holders of licences of services of Access and of the members of the advice of Administration of the centres of the small boyhood , capably will by elsewhere all contr?l?s by the Department of the S?curit? public .
this vast operation of audit morosity to the during of the next days and if shall , in the months to come , of way intensive .
I am course , honourable senators , that those of between you who have followed the business of this House on the bill of bill C - 7 me see come .
the Assembly national , in his effervescence , had forgotten , if this not had been by this competition of circumstances , who not is certainly not happy , that this question establishment of the jurisdiction of the Parliament federal .
when you if concern of this who if is past during of this event to the Quebec , you not can that be satisfy of the 13.5 of this Parliament to if dealt on the measures contained in the bill of bill C - 7 .
I not had not the intention of speak length , but I wanted you relater this history morbide who has during currently to the Quebec .
as we the Do the Senator Andreychuk yesterday , the bill of bill C - 7 not is certainly not a panacea .
he not Technicolor not all .
he not should not believe that because that we cautions in place these measures , we basis all protected now when we placerons our children in victim .
to the contrary , we autorisons the implementation in place of a mechanism additionnel of protection of the children and of the persons vulnerable .
I hope that this legislation able benefit of your support to the step of the third Reading and that she help to do of the Canada a society where the you is still able of live in security .
honourable senators , I like say few words to the about of the bill of bill C - 7 , Act amend the Act on the stopped judicial .
the chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , the hon. Lorna Milne , has treaty yesterday of the report of our Committee .
I support this report .
the bill of bill C - 7 door essentially on the process of rehabilitative and intended to facilitate the r?insertion social of the offenders who have demonstrated , when they were incarc?r?s , their showing of become of the citizens respectueux of the laws .
this bill of bill omissions to the departure some flaws who have been corrig?es through to the amendments impossible by the Committee .
therefore , you groups now in the bill the definition of the word to child to and of the expression to persons vulnerable to .
you not can not hand in the regulations of the definitions also important .
the powers regulatory are now planned in the bill ; the system of marquage of the casiers judicial is limited to the individuals who have been burdened for of the offences to uniqueness body .
to this regard , a list of the offences simple has been added in Printed to the bill of bill .
I must say , in ending that when the Committee of the Affairs legal and Constitutional studying a file on the stopped judicial , as this is the case in the presented decision or on a about as the ADN , we redoublons always of efforts for well we ensure that the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms is respected .
we know all that the sections 7 and 8 of our Charter constitutional guarding the life privacy .
this is a value fundamental in our system .
I think that the you can say that the bill of bill C - 7 , who is to the study , respect to the better of our knowledge the Constitution , there including the Charter constitutional of 1982 .
the hon. Joan Fraser :
honourable senators , I like say few words on the question raised yesterday by the Senator Andreychuk because that she is very important .
she if concern , and with reason , of the possible that we portions injured to the integrity of the system of shirts if we start to the gruger slowly .
I believe that the members of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional are all to fact prepared to recognize that , first , we want preserve the integrity of the system and , second , the bill of bill not door not injured to this integrity and the exception that he provides , account held of the number total of pardons accorded , is if mineure and if valid that we not should not we in preoccupied addition legislation .
honourable senators , this is statistiquement a small exception , and I have thought that you candidates involved to know these statistics .
to the during of the 28 past years , almost of a quarter of million of pardons have been accorded , all offences confondues .
only 4 500 of these pardons have been accorded to of the authors of offences to uniqueness body .
we talking here of a very small form of the total .
he is very clear that the bill of bill , such that amended , not intended that the offences to uniqueness body .
he met the Authorized of the Parliament for any other injured to the integrity of the system of the pardons , and I believe that the Parliament r?fl?chira seriously before of body to this system .
his Hon. the Speaker :
if no other hon. Senator not wishes take the speak , I call to the Senators the motion Authorize Adopted of the report .
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when this bill of bill will he read a third time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Fraser , the third Reading of the bill of bill , such that amended , is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
branch Canadian of the church morave of America
bill of bill private designed to amend the bill of incorporation - Second Reading
the hon. Nicholas W . Taylor move that the faults bill S - 14 , Act amend the bill establish in human moral the Council of the former of the branch Canadian of the church morave of America , be read a second time . - (
the hon. Senator Taylor ) .
this bill of bill has received the step of the second Reading three time to the during of the six past years .
this time - side , nothing not has changed .
the church morave of America if is Anzac here to the turning of the century , fair after the creation of the Senate .
the Senate if interest to this bill of bill since 1986 , year where the church if is for the first time submitted to him for do amend his behalf for that he be the even in French and in English and for do amend his human moral .
these people not unhappy not if present here for ask our leave , but this was a of the sections initial of the church to the turning of the century .
I please therefore the honourable senators of do current this bill of bill .
his Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill is read a second time . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a third time ?
the Senator Taylor :
honourable senators , with your leave , to the next sitting of the Senate .
his Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Taylor , the bills of bill are normally removed to a Committee .
this is the practice usual .
the Senator Taylor :
I the know , honourable senators , but this not is not a bill of bill evolve .
this is the third time that he just before we .
however , that met , I move that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
his Hon. the Speaker :
he is proposed by the hon. Senator Taylor and seconded by the hon. Senator Poy that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , to least that someone a gave of the comments special to do to the about of this bill of bill and account held of the fact that he has already been referred to the Committee , as the hon. Senator Taylor just all fair of the say , the House has certainly the power of decide of freestyle this part of the process and of move to the third Reading .
I me request if he not there has not a showing of act of the sort , to least that he there gave a part of controversy who deserves of be reconsidered to the step of the Committee .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I am well course fully to the clause of the Senate .
I wanted simply remind to the Senate that the used means that all the bills of bill be removed to of the committees .
the Senator Corbin :
I will then propose a motion in this sense .
his Hon. the Speaker :
I am sorry , I have a motion to the study .
the Senator Corbin :
in this case , honourable senators , I move a amendment to the motion .
I move that the bill of bill not be not referred , as this is the used , audit Committee , but that the Senate consente to the read a third time to the next sitting .
his Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion of amendment ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion of amendment is agreed . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion therefore amended ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion amended is agreed and the third Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
energy , environment and resources natural
Authorized to the Committee of Services of the staff and of if adjourn
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Spivak , seconded by the hon. Senator Cochrane :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , personnel , employees of office or other elements necessary for examine the bills of bill , the substance of the bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have been An ; and
that the Committee be authorized to if adjourn to across the Canada and to the abroad to the purposes of such reviews . - (
the hon. Senator Hays ) .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have had the opportunity of discuss of this motion with his author , the Senator Spivak .
I suggestion that we traitions of this question now .
if the Senate there hear , we could amend the motion or the deal to the average of a amendment .
I suggestion that the Senator Spivak severing the motion in deleting the words to and to the abroad to in the last sentence of sort that the motion if read as following : to That the Committee be authorized to if adjourn to across the Canada to the purposes of such reviews to , and not not as she if reads now , to know to That the Committee be authorized to if adjourn to across the Canada and to the abroad to the purposes of such reviews to .
I invite the Senator Spivak to we do share of his comments to this about .
the hon. Mira Spivak :
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I not believe not power accept of the conditions , but I can can - be satisfy the Senator Spivak in him receive that I not known no other Committee who gave a such power .
he is in my intention , in as that Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate , of adopt the even Position to the regard of the Committee of the energy , of the resources natural and of the environment .
well heard , Senator Spivak , all Committee can come in this chamber order of obtain the leave or of the instructions for travel outside of the Canada .
I hope that that satisfy the Senator for this question .
the hon. Fernand Robichaud :
honourable senators , the amendment proposed by the hon. Senator Hays request that the Committee to be authorized to if adjourn to across the Canada to .
the year last , the Committee of the fisheries and of the Oceans wanted if adjourn to the purposes of a study and you him has more or least recommended of not not the do by the through of a under - Committee because that that asked to the Committee of Authorize of the Estimates .
in this case , the Committee receives - he the Authorized and the funds necessary , automatically , for if adjourn across to the Canada without in do a request to the Committee of the Economy Economy ?
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I will deal that as a question who me is submitted during of the debate on the about .
the response to the question of the Senator Robichaud on the fact that of the resources ensure automatically allou?es to a Committee for of the trips to the Canada is to not , this not is not the case to .
in as that former - chairman of the Committee of the energy and human responsible of the allocations of the mandate enough broad that I delicacies now in doubt in as that Leader Deputy of the government , this mandate broad had been asked because that the Committee has used of participate to of the conferences and to of the events who have held in of other parties of the Canada .
by example , the Senator Spivak me has indicated that the Committee attempted send a or of the representative ( St. ) to the conference GLOBE 2000 .
the Committee has always sent a representative to this conference and this last fact a report to the Committee .
I think that that if turns very useful for the business of the Committee .
however , for obtain the resources necessary for there send a member of the Committee , he must move by the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration and do approve the budget .
usually , this Committee the fact .
this is the only response that I respectful in legislation of provide to the Senator Robichaud .
I invite the Senator Spivak to we indication if she is interested to amend his motion or if he is necessary of there contribute of the changes .
the Senator Spivak :
honourable senators , I am interested to the amend .
for answer to the Senator Robichaud , all the appropriation are pr?cis?s and will internally to extension to the seen of the business who we waiting in the year to come .
his Hon. the Speaker :
Senator Spivak , must - I in d?duire that you souhaitez that ensure retir?s of your motion the words to and to the abroad to ?
the Senator Spivak :
all simply the words to and to the abroad to .
hence this that I wish remove .
the Senator Hays :
only the words to and to the abroad to .
the Senator Spivak :
this is exactly .
his Hon. the Speaker :
have - we the consent unanimous for remove these words ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , back to the motion key such that amended .
could - we the put to the Senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker :
of the Senators :
enough !
his Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the Senator of adopt the motion amended ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion amended is agreed . )
review of the policy Canadian antidrogues
motion Authorize the training of a Committee Senate Special - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin , pursuant to the notice of the 2 November 99 , move :
that a Committee Special of the Senate be formed order of reassess the laws and the political Canadian antidrogues , of consult substantially the population Canadian for determine the needs speak of the different regions of the country , more particularly there where the problems social related to the Control and to the use of drugs uniform are more overcoming , of develop of the proposals for according any information Current to the policy Canadian antidrogues and , finally , of produce of the recommendations for in arrive to the Adopted of a strategy antidrogues implementation to the point by and for the Canadians encouraging all the levels of government to work in closely cooperation to the reduction of the mischief related to the consumption of drugs uniform .
without that this who following gave for effect of happen his mandate , that the Committee be authorized to :
- review the approach agreed by the government federal for combat the consumption of drugs uniform to the Canada , his effectiveness as average of reduce the effects of the consumption of stup?fiants and the legislation in which his application is fair ;
- develop a policy national of reduction of the mischief order of relieve the impacts negative of the consumption of drugs uniform to the Canada and do of the recommendations on the way of apply this policy , including the possible of consider before all the use and the abuse of drugs as a problem socio - sanitaire ;
- study the models of reduction of the mischief adopted by of other country and determine , if he there would held , of the apply partially or contributor , to the Canada ;
- examine the role and the obligations international who describes to the Canada in under of the conventions of the Nations Nations on the stup?fiants , of the Declaration Universal of the rights of the man and of other treaties related order of determine if these treaties the embark to take of the measures other that the prosecutions criminal and the p?nalisation of the Offenders to the wide international ;
- urge the effects of the fibre on the health and study the question of know if the employment of political alternatives to the about of the use of the fibre conduirait to a increase of the use and of the abuse to short and to long term ;
- study the possible that the government logjam of the power of regulatory that him authority the Act on the contraventions as average Supplementary of apply a policy of reduction of the mischief as he is of use in of other juridictions ;
- study any other question Current to the policy Canadian antidrogues that the Committee Justice appropriate for accomplish his mandate .
that the Committee Special be composed of five senators and that the quorum be of three members ;
that the Committee gave the power of do appear of the persons and of produce of the documents , of hear of the witnesses , of do report of time to other and of do print to the day the day documents , Crosbie and evidence according the instructions of the Committee ;
that the Crosbie received and the evidence heard during of the review of the bill of bill C - 8 , Act Authorize on the regulatory of some drugs and of their aspirin therefore that of other marine , by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional during the second session of the 30 - fifth Parliament , ensure An to the Committee ;
that the Committee be authorized to Authorize , if he the Justice timely , the television , the authorize and the Electronic by the through of the media electronic of the radio or of a part of his deliberations and of the information that he holds ;
that the Committee be authorized to sit during the adjournments of the Senate in under of the subsection 95 ( 2 ) of the Rules of the Senate ; and
that the Committee presented his report final to the more later three years after the date of his creation .
today today , I can you affirming that I am more determined that never to go of the before with this bill .
I the have ample fact during of my speech of the 14 June last .
honourable senators , to the during of the 30 past years , the sacrifices of our governments successive in this file and the recommendations of the War against the drug in riel since the beginning of the years 80 have cost very sir to the society Canadian .
the costs associated to the control and to the repression of the drugs ill?gales are without common legislation with the level of consumption or with his effects on the society or the individuals .
you join well admit , honourable senators , that this is a situation who deserves a review of the more rigorous .
this is why , the 2 November last , I have tabled to new before this House a motion Requesting that a Committee Special of the Senate be formed order of reassess the laws and the political Canadian antidrogues .
the objective of this fiscal will , first , of give to the Canadians a information exactly and tough Current to the drugs ill?gales ; second , of assessment the moral of notions of the society Canadian to the regard of the use of the drugs ill?gales and , finally , of give to the government Canadian the information necessary order that he can expand and implanter a legislation and of the political legitimate who reflect the values and the showing of the people Canadian in this who has relates to the drugs currently identifi?es as met ill?gales .
honourable senators , you have perceived , without doubt , a change of attitude home the Canadians in this who has relates to the political of control of the drugs and to their results .
the Canadians and the delay start to if pay account that the are of money important net in the repression of the consumption and of the Control of the stup?fiants not Whelans not the results success .
we have also need of know the experiences intimate in this field in of other country .
we we must of assessment the solutions of alternative fortitude by of other country , of the solutions least prevalence and who constraint a better r?insertion social of a educate important of the society .
during all the been last , I have had the fortunate of launched the country and of meet several Canadians who attend agr?ablement surprised by my intention of you ask of create a Committee Special of the Senate for reassess the policy Canadian antidrogues .
they stem of all the sector .
I have met of the policiers , of the stakeholders deposited of the users of drugs , of the doctors , of the Fathers and of the mothers of family , of the lawyers , of the senators , of the professors of university , of the students , of the journalists .
I have also participated to several shows of lines open to the during of the been .
many of stakeholders were of agreed for say that the policy of the government in Equity of control of drugs not works not and that , finally , this policy of repression top extremely sir and causait many more of wrong that of well .
number of persons and of institutions me have offered their expertise , their resources and their participation to the business of the future Committee .
to the during des15 past years , Mr. Puder if is fought against the ravages engendr?s by the War against the drug on the population of the unequal poor of this city .
he has spent the rest of his life to organizing of the campaigns of prevention and of education deposited of the young of the community , for their shown the consequences excepting of the use of marine uniform .
he has also took share to of many campaigns for ask to the government federal of adopt a policy antidrogues who maybe this problem as met a question of health public rather that criminal .
I wish to convey , by the present speech , my sincere sympathy to the members of his family .
I wish also pay tribute to the courage and to the determination dontM. Puder has fact evidence to the during of the past years therefore that to the together of his work .
I bring pointed that the message of sympathy of the Senator Chalifoux to his place has been noticed and appreciate .
the months last , I have participated to two million similar to the University of Ottawa and of Moncton .
despite a lag responsible , of many students if are displaced for participate to these discussions .
in reaction to the announcement of my bill , several editors and commentators of the media of across to the Canada have reacts positively .
these last have been surprised that a such initiative provienne of the Senate .
I conclusion that they have welcomed the Tabled of my motion as a bouff?e of air fees in the loss policy Canadian .
to this payments , in his edition of the 21 June last , the Globe The Mail Compensating that the Senate party absolutely give his agreed to this bill for shown a time for all that our political current in Equity of the drugs not working more , and I quote :
some questions of policy public are so ?pineuses that the politicians doing almost all for avoid of in speak .
the conception legal of the use not medical of the drugs is a of these questions ...
a report seriously of the Senate could airing the cost direct high of the policy current and the compare with extend of solutions of alternative realistic .
if this report amorphous a vast support deposited of the public , he could convince the politicians timides that of the reforms are palatable .
this is the policy , not the reason , who has prompting the members to refuse he there has three years a bill of study Joint of the question by the Commons and the Senate .
the senators accompliraient a service public if they if chargeaient them - same of this study .
honourable senators , the 26 November last , during of the caucus of the mayors of the 21 more major cities of the Canada , the members of the Federation Canadian of the municipalities , I have presented my bill .
this association , who covers more of slightly municipalities Canadian , has adopted , he there has two years , a resolution who welcomed the policy prohibitionniste of the government federal in Equity of control of the drugs uniform .
this resolution enjoignait the authorities federal to not not amend the provisions of the current Act Drugs some drugs and other marine .
however , the 21 April last , the Association Canadian of the leaders of police has recommended to the government federal of d?criminaliser and not of l?galiser the possession of small amount of stup?fiants , including the h?ro?ne .
this who was the more encouraging in the taken of Position of the Association Canadian of the leaders of police , this is that she recommended to the population Canadian and to the government federal of adopt a approach who traiterait all the questions Impediment to the consumption abusive of stup?fiants as a problem of health public .
I wish to you remind that this Position has been seconded by the Mounted Royal of the Canada .
since this taken of Position , the Federation Canadian of the municipalities is in considering of revising his own Position on this question .
she attempts of expand a new strategy in this field , represents on the reduction of the mischief others the users of drugs .
the federation , to the behalf of his members , has fact reach a letter to the Minister of the Justice Requesting that the government creates a forum where this question would debated .
this is this that I you move today today with the creation of a Committee Special on the drugs ill?gales .
the municipalities have a role important to play in the reform of our political antidrogues .
they constitute the level of government the more poised of the citizen .
they roles a Position privileged for determine what are the major problems and consequences Social engendr?s by our political r?pressives antidrogues .
the mayors are aware of this responsibility and they have asked this that they could do for amend this situation .
as we all , they are to the research of solutions alternatives to these problems social .
as we , they in are came to the conclusion that the political of repression used for the control of the drugs ill?gales are inefficient and conscious very sir to the citizens .
by elsewhere , the members of the caucus of the mayors of the major cities Canadian have helpfulness the members of the Senate of have well welcomed the proposal that I have introduced in June last .
of more , the caucus has adopted to the unanimously and in his entirety the motion who is before you .
to this effect , following this that the mayor of Edmonton , Bill Smith , wrote in his letter of the 29 November 99 :
I support certainly the motion that you have introduced to the Senate .
to my notice , that just certainly ?tayer the need of a Senate and the good work that gets this institution .
as I the have said to the meeting , that me honourably always of hear of the people to the Canada criticize the Senate .
I known personally of many senators and I know to what point they working strong for the Canada .
I wish to highlight that several of the mayors that I have met souhaitaient contribute their contribution to the business of this Committee .
back now to the conduct of the business of the Committee .
to departure of the mandate described in the motion , the study that I you move today today will divided in 12 themes .
the honourable senators who located participate to the business are the welcome but , to of the purposes of effectiveness , I attempts of limit to five the senators who will attitr?s to the business of the Committee .
each of the five senators who will members of the Committee need if Services to take in labour the business of research of two or three des12 themes .
I wish to you in avertir , the task of lead the research and of s?lectionner of the witnesses not will not allocated only to the steering of the research and to the coordinator of the Committee .
he if is of a work rigorous .
each of the senators who takes in reminder these subjects need do report to the other members of the Committee of the advancement of his research .
some of between you hand can - be say that he if is of a approach too tough .
to follows , I Albertan that I believe firmly that in giving this way of work , we able accomplish our mandate of a way objective and serious .
we want give a information transparent , objective and verified by the members of the Committee .
if we want rise the debate to a level more seriously and well inform the Canadians and the government , we not have not of other choice that of adopt this type of approach .
honourable senators , I not have not the intention today today of address in detail each of the 12 themes who will included in this study .
I will speak only of those who are really important to my eyes for that the Committee can study these questions .
you have all , I in am satisfied , took knowledge of the document that I you had left in June last .
when they will informed , the Committee need the invite to participate to our business for trying of discover what is their level of notions in Equity of drugs .
why have - I used the word to notions to , honourable senators ?
you missed understand in read the researchers on the history of the Prohibition to the Canada and in the world .
you missed understand that the questions of health public not have never been taken in account when just the time of legislation and of prohiber , and follows soon the first Prohibition , who has been similar of the opium .
he not has never or almost been question of health public , but he has ample been question of notions public , of racism , of trade international , of the importance that you party give to the companies of products generic .
all the questions of trade and of notions have engendr? the Prohibition that you knows today today .
the Canadians understand that all the participating of these treaties have led tranquillement the population of our country , because the parliamentarians , of good faith , not if are never retourn?s for see of where just the Prohibition .
you has believed this that our ancestors we had said , you has fonc? and you has continued to prohiber and to sign of the treaties for prohiber still more .
today today , you if groups in the situation that the Dr. Riley you has submitted in the report that I have tabled in June last .
I could you in speak during long , but I not have not the intention of take more of your time .
you have before you the benchmarks iterations of the mandate that I you request for the Committee , a mandate of a length of three years .
as I the have said all to the hour , each member would the responsibility of some facets of the mandate overall , and this is a work very rigorous .
why ?
he there already many of research scientific in this field .
this is can - be the about who has been the more examined in the second half of the 20 century .
he if is of eliminate this type of research and of if focus with hold on the research scientific endorses .
each member of the Committee would the responsibility of a of the facets of the review .
all that can easily if ?chelonner on almost of two years .
after that , he if is of write a report interim , of inform the Canadians of this that we regards discovered , of uncontroversial then their reactions for in arrive to the step of the report .
he there will in during of road a election federal .
I seriously thinking that we basis to even of avoid the ?cueils that can we contribute a election federal , particularly when he is question of a about also sensitive .
I rather therefore have more of time for do the work and therefore avoid of be forced of produce a report who will looked in p?ture to of the politicians who not rechercheront that of the subjects for capably the emotions of the Canadians could be ?veill?es without that you their give any the information necessary .
( on the motion of the Senator Kenny , the debate is adjourned . )
fisheries
Authorized to the Committee of study of the questions Impediment to his mandate
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau , pursuant to the notice 2 December 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the fisheries be authorized to study , order of present a report on of the questions Impediment to the industry of the fisheries ;
that the Committee convey report to the more later the 12 December 2000 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices usual , to table his report deposited of the Greffier of the Senate if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be reputation have been tabled to the Senate .
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I like do a observation on the development of the Order of referred to the regard of a great question as similar of the fisheries , who is vital and that I support fully .
the week last , we in have machinery a on the agriculture and a other on the Forestry .
the Senator Nolin in request a on the drugs uniform .
the Senator Kirby in request a on the services of health .
some of the studies in question dureront can - be a year or two .
in the case of similar of the Senator Nolin , she conducting three years .
before of approver these studies special , we should obtain a view of the costs in question , of many more that , to my knowledge , the budget of our committees - I not believe not that the situation gave changed these past years - is always very limited .
he if is probably of the position budget the more canvassed and always under - supported .
I not want not put a preferment to the study proposed by the senators Comeau and Robichaud .
before that we not seeing too far , I believe however that we should have a view General of this that these studies cost to the Senate and of the amount that we are prepared to Services to the during of the two and three next years .
we constaterons can - be that we not able not complete some of these studies , fault of funds or of pr?voyance .
the Senator Comeau :
the problem that he there has to present a budget before of obtain a mandate , this is that without mandate , you not can present a budget .
of first , he must have the mandate and then , we can we contact to our Committee and prepare the budget .
if the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration believes that we should go of the before with the study , you able in discuss to this time - there , but we not can all simply not prepare a budget without have to the pre a mandate .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have a question to ask to the Senator Comeau .
I think that I known the response , but let - me of the confirm .
I believe that this motion is introduced with the approval of the members of the Committee , and I suppose that this is a approval unanimous , but I appr?cierais a observation to this about .
I understand the point of view defended by the Senator Staunton - Lynch therefore that extend of the Senator Comeau .
in as that chairman of a Committee , he is difficult of know this who proceeded in Prime in these case - there .
what that he in be , I know that the Committee has fact of the excellent work to the during of the last Parliament to the following of a referred of this kind .
the Committee has held account of a referred to the budget of the Estimates for Corrections his study , and we in clearer there to a time given in this chamber .
I like that you me notwithstanding this that he in is of the decision of the Committee of go the Senate of this motion .
the Senator Comeau :
honourable senators , the motion whose talking the Leader Deputy , be similar Authorize on the Estimates of the Estimates , is the third motion that I will present .
I there viendrai in a moment .
my third motion move that , to the case where the Estimates of the Estimates would referred to the Committee , we news the average of table the report on these forecasts budget .
however , for the moment , if the forecasts budget not are not renvoy?es to our Committee , well heard , we not the renverrons not to the Clerk if the Senate not seat not .
the hon. Fernand Robichaud :
honourable senators , if I then add few comments and can - be assure the hon. Senator Staunton - Lynch , when we have considered this motion , he if 13 in fact of have a mandate enough broad for we allow of study all the questions Impediment to the fisheries .
he was all to fact heard that if we find travel , a budget would prepared and presented to the Committee of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration order that we can meet the guidelines that each Committee has showed of control his Estimates .
the year last , the Committee of the fisheries and of the Oceans has exactly left a trip on the Coast Western because that you not could not find the funds necessary for commissioned this trip . It
is well including that this not is not a question of budget and of if tour a little across to the Canada .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
this not was not my intention of let confused a doubt around of the motion of the Senator Comeau .
I wanted ask that you be many that possible always intending of the fact that our Budgets are very limited .
also laudable that ensure the studies Province , particularly those who if prolongent on a period of two or three years , he would good that the Senate be before of the costs immediately for not not have of bad surprises .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , no other Senator not wishes take the speak .
you pleasure - he of adopt the motion , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee of allow the Electronic of his deliberations by of the means electronic
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau , pursuant to the notice du2 December 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the fisheries be authorized to allow the meaning of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , you pleasure - he of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee of Services of the staff
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau , pursuant to the notice that he has given the 2 December 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the fisheries be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , personnel , employees of office or other elements necessary for examine the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have been An .
( the motion is agreed . )
transport and Communications
Authorized to the Committee of according his deliberations by the media of information electronic
the hon. Lise Bacon , pursuant to the notice of the 6 December 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications be authorized to allow the Electronic of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , of manner to bother the least possible his business .
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , of more in more , all the committees looking to the Senate the Authorized of radiodiffuser and of t?l?diffuser their hearings public .
you in is came to the point where the you should give a licensing general to all the committees who want proceed of the sort .
you lives when even to a then where all the world is branch? , all the world means look and listen .
this prerequisite is become redundant .
the Committee of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure should if dealt on this pre and he should biffer of the Rules this prerequisite .
you someone the committees compassionate of their heartened in this field .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , there has he of other senators who farm take the speak ?
of the Senators :
not .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , you pleasure - he of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee of clerical of the services
the hon. Lise Bacon , pursuant to the notice of the 6 December 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , personnel , employees of office or other elements necessary for examine the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have been An .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , you pleasure - he of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate if adjourned to the Wednesday 8 December 99 , to 13 p.m. 30 . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 18
the Wednesday 8 December 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
' ' '
the maturation respectively vitro
the Ontario
the bill on the restructuring regional - Position proposal of declare Ottawa officially bilingual
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
Library of the Parliament
Presented of the Prime report of the Committee Joint
agriculture and Forestry
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
land - Newfoundland
the reform of the system school - Position amendment to the clause 17 of the Constitution - Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Special
languages official
Presented of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing
PERIOD PERIOD question
the transport
the airport of Fredericton - Conformity state of the negotiations seconded to the transfer to the Administration a?roportuaire local
the airport of Fredericton - Conformity inaptitude of the system of pistes to welcome some aircraft
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the Ontario - Position restructuring regional municipale - Conformity refusal of the province of declare the capital national bilingual
the transport
the acquisition of the Airlines air Canadian International by Air Canada - Position regulatory of a requires monopoly in the industry of the transportation of the travellers Threat - Position policy of the government
air Canada - Conformity increase of the rates Threat
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic - Conformity Opposition of the share of the government of the Alberta
the transport
air Canada - Position increase of the rates
the heritage
the status of the Corporation commemorative of the Holocaust
Order OF orders
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and on the documents electronic
third Reading - motion of amendment - Adjourned of the debate
the Act on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Third Reading
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
Adopted of the report of the Committee of the Finance national on the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A )
bill of bill admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical
second Reading - Continued of the debate
branch Canadian of the church morave of am?rique
bill of bill private designed to amend the Act of incorporation - Third Reading
the business of the Senate
Order to the Rules - Ruling of the Speaker
the SENATE
the Wednesday 8 December 99
the sitting is met to 13 p.m. 30 , the Speaker met to the Chair .
prayers .
the maturation respectively vitro
the hon. Lucie pin :
honourable senators , he there has three weeks , of the researchers of the University McGill have said have helped with success several couples to draw of the babies , even of the twin , through to a new method r?volutionnaire .
the method who removing the changing of the ovules immatures of a mother in embryons if Order the maturation respectively vitro .
the MIV broadsides of the method of f?condation respectively vitro who has r?volutionn? the treatment of the infertility in the years 70 .
the maturation respectively vitro differs of the f?condit? respectively vitro of the fact that , in the MIV , the ovule is prompting to mature then f?cond? to the outside of the ut?rus of the mother , then that , in the FIV , the ovule already mature is f?cond? in laboratory .
the MIV has been implementation to the point in Korea of the South and in Australia to the beginning of the years 90 to the intention of the women whose the ovules not could be drew naturally to mature .
until to recently , the rate of success of the MIV was low , but the Dr. Seang Lin Tan , steering of the Naturalization of obst?trique and of gyn?cologie to the University McGill , has changed the things .
in r?ussissant to takes the ovules to mature to the outside of the body , he has open the door to of new practices of f?condation respectively vitro allowing a rate of success higher to the low 20 per present .
this technical seems succeed to the women who have tried without success of become repatriated by of other means .
in addition , she costs the half of this that top the FIV .
what wonderful new for the couples who able in advantage !
but that in is - he for our society ?
with the variety of new technical of reproductive , the response , this is that we are in the uncertainty .
we are very happy for the couples who , through to this Technology , will capable of have of the children .
but the things not are not also simple .
who should advantage of this Technology ?
who has access to this treatment ?
that must - you know before of if options to this treatment ?
what are the impact incidental of this treatment on the plan moral to short , average and long term ?
the issues are if complex and the applications Moneys of several of these technologies are if extensive .
this is a field where he not there has or black or white , but that of the gris .
in 1993 , the Commission Royal on the new technical of reproductive has presented his report challenged , between other , of create a commission national on the technical of reproductive .
this commission was supposed do several things .
first , she would authorised of the licences to the institutions , and would set the standards and eye the practices Impediment to the use of the technical of reproductive existing .
second , she would coast , constant and release to the public the information on these technologies .
third , he was expected that she monitors the blossoms of technical and of practices new and that she adopt of the political .
finally , she party facilitate the cooperation governmental in this field .
unfortunately , the government federal not has not given following to this recommendation .
each time that I hear speak of the implementation to the point of a new technical to the Canada , I regret the absence of a commission national .
we not have not of body national responsible of examine the questions that pose these technical or of in regulate the use .
I urge the government federal to farewell the recommendations of the commission Royal of 1993 and of take soon that possible the measures who if impose for create a commission national of the technical of reproductive .
the Ontario
the bill on the restructuring regional - Position proposal of declare Ottawa officially bilingual
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , of by the right and the Constitution of the Canada , the government of the Ontario is petty of all the municipalities of the province , and the government present is absolutely determined to in do the evidence .
unfortunately , this even government not has never hesitated , not would - this that a second , to impose his showing to the citizens of the province .
I wish to highlight that the government spend not has never forced the municipalities that he has created to adopt the beside to officially bilingual to .
Ottawa is however a municipality as nowhere other .
this is the capital national of this country bilingual who is the ours .
honourable senators , I urge the government spend to follow the recommendation Mr. Glen Shortliffe , his advisor Special on the restructuring of the region of Ottawa - Carleton , and to declare officially bilingual the new city of Ottawa deaths of the amalgamation , city who is also the capital of the Canada .
of the Senators :
hear !
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
Library of the Parliament
Presented of the Prime report of the Committee Joint
the hon. Louis J . Robichaud , Chairman of the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament , presented the report following :
the Wednesday 8 December 99
the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament has the honour of present his
Prime REPORT
your Committee recommends that he be authorized to advisor the portrait of the Senate and of the House of the Commons in the fiscal of their authority on the Library of the Parliament and that he be authorized to do of the recommendations to the chairmen of the two Houses regarding the Economy of the Library and the good use of the appropriation Millenium by the Parliament to the Purchase of documents or purposes 118.8 to there be tabled .
your Committee recommends that the quorum be established to seven ( 7 ) members , pursuing that the two Houses ensure representation each time that he there has a vote or that a resolution or any other decision is taken , and that the chairmen ensure authorized to hold of the meetings for hear the evidence and to in Authorize the Appendix , pursuing that four ( 4 ) members ensure attendance and that the two Houses ensure representation .
your Committee recommends also to the Senate that he be authorized to sit during the sittings of the Senate .
a copy of the Proc?s - Proceedings relevant ( meeting No. 1 ) is tabled .
respectfully submitted ,
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when taken - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Robichaud , the study of the report is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
agriculture and Forestry
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry , who door on the Estimates incurred by the Committee to the during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report found to the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
land - Newfoundland
the reform of the system school - Position amendment to the clause 17 of the Constitution - Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Special
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Joint Special regarding the amendment to the clause 17 of the Term of the union of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , who door on the Estimates incurred by the Committee to the during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report found to the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
languages official
Presented of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing
the hon. Rose - Marie Losier - Losier , co of the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official , presented the report following :
the Wednesday 8 December 99
the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official has the honour of present his
Prime REPORT
your Committee , who is authorized by the section 88 of the Act on the languages official of follow the application of the bill , of the regulations and instructions in fully , therefore that the implementation in Bill of the reports of the Commissioner to the languages official , of the Speaker of the Council of the Treasury and of the Minister of the Heritage Canadian , fact report , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules , that the Estimates encourues to this end by the Committee to the during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament are the following :
your Committee recommends that the quorum be desept ( 7 ) members , to condition that the two Houses and the Opposition ensure representation to the time of a vote , of a resolution or of any other decision , and that the chairmen ensure authorized to hold of the meetings for hear the evidence and to in Authorize the publication soon that four ( 4 ) members are attendance , to condition that the two Houses and the Opposition ensure representation .
during the session , the Committee has examined the Partie VII of the Act on the languages official , in under of which the government federal if commitment to promote the healthy of the minorities francophones and English of the Canada and to support their development .
the Committee has held 28 meetings and heard 47 witnesses .
respectfully submitted ,
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when taken - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Losier - Losier , the study of the report is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
PERIOD PERIOD question
the transport
the airport of Fredericton - Conformity state of the negotiations seconded to the transfer to the Administration a?roportuaire local
the hon. M. Robertson :
honourable senators , I like ask a question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
many of parliamentarians of the region of the Atlantic if concern now of the uncertainty surrounding the service Air offered to our more small communities in the region .
however , the airport of Fredericton has a other problem in more of this uncertainty .
all those who borrow this airport know that he has been neglected to the over of the years .
the government federal negotiating for transfer the airport to the authorities local .
however , this neglect starts to do feel his effects .
she duration since long , 2 years .
because that you has neglected the facilities and that you has fact ignoring of the needs current of the airport , according a section The in the teethed Gleaner , the consultants of the Administration a?roportuaire of the Grand Fredericton him have pointed that a Investment de20 million of $ is necessary for do in sort that the airport changing to the standards current or to the standards who if impose of our days .
you if request even if the bobsleds key not is not too short .
the government federal not is not prepared to do this Investment of 20 billion of $ before of transfer the responsibility of the airport to the operators local .
in this case - there , the Administration a?roportuaire local has little of opportunity of succeed .
he if can also that the revenues a?roportuaires down to the following of the restructuring of the industry of the transportation Air and of a reduction possible of the number of atterrissages .
the opportunity that a new exploitant nervous are still least major .
he if is , to my notice , of a question of equity .
if the Administration a?roportuaire of the Grand Fredericton must have a real fortunate of succeed and of exploit the airport , who connection the capital and the centre of the New - Brunswick , the government federal must recognize that he must really , in the framework of the negotiations with the Administration a?roportuaire local on the taken of control of the airport , hold account of all the years where he has treaty of way unfair this airport .
the Leader of the government provide he to the Senate a account realized of the negotiations surrounding this problem seriously for the population of Fredericton ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not am not very to the aware of the negotiations in during to the about of the airport of Fredericton , but I know what process has been adopted in of other regions of the country .
I known particularly well the case of the airport of Halifax , where a process similar has been adopted and where of the questions similar have been raised .
I must here pay tribute to my predecessor , the Senator Graham , whose the work has widely contributed to convince the government federal of fund the improvements concerning to the capital of the airport of Halifax .
of any obviously , this is a question who is occasion when of such negotiations are businesses .
a precedent has certainly been established .
further to know what will the outcome of these negotiations , I not am surely not in legislation of surfacing of the assumptions , but I am aware of the importance of the problem .
I am prepared to do share of the concerns of the Senator to the Minister in because .
the Senator Robertson :
Mr. the Minister , I you in if strong grateful , all as the would without doubt also of other senators .
he seems that you gave answered enough well to their needs .
however , we like obtain a account realized of your intervention deposited of the Minister order of ensure to this that the situation own to Fredericton be resolved quickly and with many of equity .
we forward with forward of obtain your response to this about .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am recognize prepared to address this question with the Minister of the Transport , the hon. David Collenette .
of more , when the opportunity if appear , I me bring a happy of discuss of the problem with my colleague of the Council private filter of the province of the New - Brunswick .
the airport of Fredericton - Conformity inaptitude of the system of pistes to welcome some aircraft
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I have a question Supplementary .
the Leader of the government could - he , to the during of his discussion with the Minister of the Transport regarding the airport of Fredericton , draw the attention of this last on the study of 1992 of the Department of the Transport who illegality the need of extend to 78 100,000 feet the bobsleds is - west ?
currently , this bobsleds not can welcome that of the aircraft turbopropulseurs .
the bobsleds south - west can welcome of the DC9 and of the BAC146 and , when he fact fine , the flying to reaction regional .
I ask to the Minister of address the question with his colleague , the Minister of the Transport , but also with a other of his colleagues , the Minister of the Defence national .
words said , honourable senators , the Airbus of the Forces Canadian not can not atterrir on the more great basic of the Forces Canadian to the Canada , this who seems enough invraisemblable .
when he there has of the travelling of soldiers of the basic of Gagetown - and he if is of the more great basic of the Forces Canadian not only to the Canada , but also , to the level geographical , to the Commonwealth British - they must if pay in bus to Moncton , where if find a bobsleds more long Brunswicker welcome the Airbus of the Forces Canadian .
I me request if the second dimension of this need , implementation in obviously in the own study of the Department of the Transport of 1992 and then in the fact that the army of Gagetown if find there and that the military not can not there do atterrir their aircraft , could be occasion .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I if happy of convey to the ministers in question the comments of the Leader Deputy of the Opposition .
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the Ontario - Position restructuring regional municipale - Conformity refusal of the province of declare the capital national bilingual
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the capital of the country , economist Harris and company , would therefore unilingual English .
this new city of Ottawa regroupera under a even Administration all the municipalities urban of the region of Ottawa - Carleton .
this decision of the government Conservative Mr. Harris demonstrates to what point he know the reality Canadian , a country having two languages official .
he is unacceptable and intol?rable that the Canada gave a capital national unilingual .
we side the single capital to the world who Plains the bilingualism institutional .
I not known not of country having two languages official or more who not has not respected the duality linguistic in his capital .
the Minister can - he we say if the government federal has the intention of do pressure deposited Mr. Harris and of his government for that he respect the two languages official , be the French and the English , in the capital of our country ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the statements who have been made to the Senate by the Senator therefore that by the Senator Milne more earlier and of other yesterday reflect my point of view transpired that he agreeable absolutely that the capital of the country be bilingual .
the Administration municipale is certainly a responsibility provincial , but Ottawa is a city similar to no other to the country .
she is the capital of the country .
before of answer to the behalf of the government , honourable senators , I like do equally that I believe firmly that the city of Ottawa must be a capital national bilingual .
honourable senators , the Prime Minister has spoke publicly to this regard .
he bestow with the Prime Minister of the Ontario and the pressera of take the measures who if impose for ensure to this that the capital of the country be d?clar?e officially bilingual .
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , I listening the response given by the Leader of the government and I am fully of agreed with him .
the Senator Gauthier :
honourable senators , I understand the Position of the government .
the municipality of Ottawa - Carleton is a creation of the government provincial and is therefore under his juridiction .
all of even , the Minister can - he say if the government federal , before a refusal of the province of declare the capital national bilingual , disposes his power constitutional or the powers that him authority the Act on the languages official for correct this situation and do in sort that a city of Ottawa agrandie be and remains the capital national of the country with two languages official ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , a sure number of persons f?rues in Equity constitutional , there including of the senators , are of notice that the section 16 of the Act constitutional authority a sure power to the government federal for speak in of the questions similar .
all this that I then say of a point of view legal , this is that the government federal and the Prime Minister are , in this time even , in considering of examine the question .
any question constitutional is complex and require usually a review carefully .
frankly , I think that the government pr?f?rerait that the question be resolved without Order to the courts .
hope that the Prime Minister of the Ontario respond to the wishes clear views of the population of the country , of the senators , of the Prime Minister and of other personalities .
he is to hope that the Prime Minister of the Ontario takes these comments to the seriously and that he foundations his fusil of ?paule .
the Senator Nolin :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
I am of agreed with your response and with this that your government attempts of affirming .
he not fact no doubt that we satisfied we ask the question , to know this that we happen of the region of Hull , who fact also part of the region of the capital national .
this is a all other problem .
what assistance financial are - you prepared to contribute order of you ensure that the government of the Ontario not using not the reasons economic for avoid of change the situation ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , he if is of a question who request of frank discussions between the Prime Minister of the Canada and extend of the Ontario .
I believe that these discussions discuss held and that the Prime Minister of the Canada fewer then , when he takes in consideration all the comments who discuss been made , of the least in this House , that we are very supportive to of the measures designed to do in sort that Ottawa be a capital bilingual .
he would impossible of do of the conjectures on the details of these discussions for the moment .
however , the message has been given clear .
the government of the Canada and his Prime Minister the taking to the seriously .
you hope that the Prime Minister of the Ontario in will many .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , after of long deliberations , the Queen Victoria had decided that Ottawa would the capital of the Canada .
Montreal , Kingston and Toronto had stood been of the capitales , and the things not if were not well fellow in no of these cities .
this is Ottawa who had been earlier .
I putting with the Senator Nolin that you would favourite that Hull be added to Ottawa , but however , Ottawa is the capital of the Canada .
I am can - be little in disagreement with my colleague , in this sense that the government federal should include of the funds or a expressions .
I request that Ottawa reflects a ideal .
me , I am a Canadian French of the Quebec .
by therefore , the government federal should remind to the people of Ottawa and to the government of the Ontario that this city should intellects really this that you wanted that she be , the capital of all the Canada .
since I love be positive , I remove even that the hon. Leader of the government expeditiously , with all his colleagues , to propose a motion to the Senate order of remind to all the responsible that Ottawa should intellects the real nature of the Canada .
the Leader of the government songera he to propose a simple resolution of the Senate for remind to all the world that Ottawa should represent all the Canadians ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , we r?fl?chirons certainly to this suggestion .
by elsewhere , I like also me do the echo of this that the hon. Senator has said in his preamble .
he has been many more eloquent to this about that I not could the be , but he if is certainly of a case of a importance serious for we all .
the transport
the acquisition of the Airlines air Canadian International by Air Canada - Position regulatory of a requires monopoly in the industry of the transportation of the travellers Threat - Position policy of the government
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I have two or three questions regarding Air Canada and his merger with Canadian International and the any last decision of Air Canada .
as we the know all , Air Canada has now order to the 23 December the date limit for the Tabled and the regulation final of the actions and therefore of following .
the society Air Canada not has not indicated of way detailed in what disallow the problems , but she has left hear that she looking to obtain the consent of agencies of regulatory , of even that a confusion of the provisions of a bill of new regulatory or of new policy .
must - I in d?duire of these statements general that you has proposed someone something in this sense , that you in has discussed with the leaders of Air Canada and that their review of the proposal if continues ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
the Senator Forrestall :
this is because that this was a section of the Presse Canadian .
the Senator Boudreau :
the Committee of the transport of the House of the Commons has tabled his report .
the Senator Kinsella :
he not if is however not stopped to the section 47 .
the Senator Boudreau :
he not fact no doubt that the report of the Committee Senate of the transport and of the Communications will tabled very soon .
the two reports business can - be a direction further to a policy specific in Equity of transportation Air .
I am to the aware of the ground of the postponement of the offer of Air Canada .
all this that I know for the time , I the have read in the Globe The Mail .
air Canada - Conformity increase of the rates Threat
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , we have seen Air Canada preferred a second step .
the first step , who has consist? to let hear that , if the government tried of someone way that this be of reduce his freedom of movement , she 241 his offer , this who limited if ?crouler all the bill of merger , has had the effect of a real gifle to the government of the Canada and to all the Canadians reasonable .
he there has certainly someone something who if prepares to the about of the rates in the discussions between the government of the Canada and Air Canada .
in reason of the increase of the price of the fuel , we critical fair of suffer a increase general of 3 per of the rates Threat , this who is a real abuse .
these rates taxes always and not redescendent never .
human not seems know why they not can not redescendre .
there has he of the discussions on the process of regulatory between the government of the Canada and Air Canada who justifieraient that the society air happiest of all the opportunities , pools the competition and convey encaisser to the consumers a increase of 3 per of the rates ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
the interests of the population Canadian , of the small communities of all the Canada and of the travellers will to the heart of any discussion with Air Canada .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate could - he we say if you will ask to Air Canada of cancel the increase of 3 per until to this that a deadline d?cent if be expired ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I not think not that he me responsibility of defend a transporteur Air national .
however , you we said that the increase is due to the fact that the cost of the fuel if is increased , if I not me read , of 100 per to the during of the last months .
if the price of the fuel down , we see if the rates Threat down also .
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic - Conformity Opposition of the share of the government of the Alberta
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology .
the chairman has fact referring to a letter that two ministers of the government of the Alberta , Shirley McClellan , Minister of the Race international and Intergovernmental , and Walter Paszkowski , Minister of the Affairs municipal , him have sent the 7 December for if against to the bill of bill C - 6 , Authorize on the protection of the information personal .
in this letter who has been widely accepted and who step the second communication filter of the government of the Alberta , the province objective to obtain of the amendments to the bill of bill for remove the sections who empi?tent on the jurisdiction of the provinces , therefore that of other provisions .
met given the representations pressing presented by the government of the Alberta on the question of jurisdiction , what is the response of the chairman to the statement of the Alberta according which , if this bill of bill is adopted , the Alberta could be Bucharest of appeal the constitutionality of this legislation for maintain his powers to the words of the Constitution ?
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I will answer to the last question in all Prime held .
even if some , including the government of the Alberta , can thinking that the bill of bill is unconstitutional , the constitutional consulted by the Committee and , in fact , by the government are all to fact confident that the bill of bill will felt constitutional .
the first question is a little more complex , to know that this bill of bill not if apply not to the activities intraprovinciales pursuing that the province gave a bill of bill essentially similar to the bill federal .
he would difficult for the businesses of be covered to two programs , this who would the case if a province party adopt a bill on the protection of the information personal in great part similar to the bill of bill C - 6 .
he is obvious that this is a point of view legitimate and this is this who explain the clause portion in the bill of bill federal : if a province adopt a bill on the protection of the information personal similar in great part , the bill of bill federal not if apply not in this case - there .
rest to know , by example , if the before - bill of bill of the Alberta regarding the health is substantially similar .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the questions arises to the chairman of a Committee not must not bringing on the about to the study , but strictly on the activities of the Committee .
the questions Authorize on the extension of this that studying a Committee not are not recevables .
the Senator Roche :
honourable senators , seen these difficulties , there he a reason expliquant why you not has not asked to the government of the Alberta of testify before the Committee for explain his Position , met given that , the 15 October , he had sent a first letter , who just of be followed of a letter quasiment identical ?
the Senator Kirby :
honourable senators , I speak you the confirm tomorrow , but , of after this that I know , you has asked to several provinces who had sent a letter - including the Alberta and the Ontario - if they wanted appear .
the Ontario has sent of the representatives , whose his under - Minister Deputy of the Health .
the Minister not has not appeared .
if I me recall well , and the Clerk of the Committee need the confirm , you has asked to the government of the Alberta if he wanted appear , but he has answered that his letter suffice as testimony and that human not compara?trait in his behalf .
the transport
air Canada - Position increase of the rates
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question door on Air Canada and on the increase of the rates .
the question has already been raised and you there has answered in part , but I chair a question supplementary to ask to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
according the National Financial , Laura Cook , door - speak of Air Canada , would said to the about of the increase of the rates that the depository for the States - United and other destinations international had been incorrect and that their price not had not increased in reason of the competition .
therefore , if Air Canada if groups in situation of monopoly to the Canada , without competition , must - he if expect to this that the rates not withdrawal of increase ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not can or confirm or d?mentir this that just of say the Senator Oliver .
I will however seek to obtain more of information and I you in bring share to the more soon .
the Senator Oliver :
the Minister not agreeable - he not that he is shocking that the company air increase his rates domestic , but not his rates international ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , this is for the least surprisingly and this is a question who deserves of be substantive .
the heritage
the status of the Corporation commemorative of the Holocaust
the hon. Colin Kenny :
honourable senators , I have given notice the week last of the question that I me furthered to ask .
of the groups concerned by the status of the Museum commemorative of the Holocaust if are adress?s to me .
the Leader of the government to the Senate could - he we say this that he in is of the status of the Corporation ?
the government upholds - he his commitment in the principle of the implementation in place of a such Corporation ?
if such is the case , can - you if expect to see the file advance ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the comm?moration of this event prosecutors in the history of the humanity is a question very important .
unfortunately , I not can not in speak in detail today today .
I me in apologize deposited of the hon. Senator , and can - be speak - I the do soon tomorrow .
Order OF orders
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and on the documents electronic
third Reading - motion of amendment - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I have said yesterday that I had the intention of propose a amendment to the step of the third Reading of the bill of bill .
he would can - be good that I convey Reading of the amendment before of in speak .
I move , seconded by the hon. Senator Doody :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
the Senator Murray :
I limit of how of time for speak ?
his Hon. the Speaker :
as you are the Prime to speak to the step of the third Reading of the bill of bill , you disposez of 45 minutes .
I must however you prevent that , pursuant to a Order of the Senate , the sitting will adjourned adjourn p.m. 30 .
the Senator Murray :
I you thank , Your Hon. .
honourable senators , I you refer to the subsection 7 ( 1 ) , who specific this who following :
for the application of the section 4.3 of the Printed II and despite the note aff?rente , the organization not can hear of information personal to the insu of the interested and without his consent that in the case following ...
this are of the reasons strong valid who , of the notice of any human reasonable , suffiraient to justify the communication of information personal collected to of the purposes trade .
however , the bill of bill lists then several circumstances more questionable .
before of address the subsection whose I have proposed the deleting , I ?voquerai two of the circumstances questionable .
the a found to the notwithstanding f ) , who says that he would legal of communicate of the information personal without the consent of the human categorically :
... to of the purposes statistics or to of the purposes of study or of research ?rudites , these purposes not can be conducted without that the Intelligence be release , the consent is virtually impossible to obtain and the organization informed the Commissioner of the communication before of the do .
nothing not provides here that the Commissioner can interrupt the process or speak of someone way in his conduct .
the right that him authority this under - notwithstanding is simply extend of be informed when the information collected for of the grounds commercial to the about of the human will releases to to of the purposes statistics or to of the purposes of study ... to
in under of the notwithstanding g ) , the communication of information personal collected by a business is legal if :
... she is made to a institution whose the attributions understand the conservation of documents having a importance historic or archivistique , in view of a such conservation .
he if is here of the information personal collected to your about , or to the about of any other human , by of the businesses in the framework of their activities - regarding by example your mortgage , your card of credit , your file revamped .
he is said here that these information personal you regarding can be releases only to to of the purposes statistics or to of the purposes of study or of research ?rudites to or , to the under - notwithstanding g ) , to of the purposes of conservation of documents having a to importance historic or archivistique to .
keep - we to the from to this part .
hurt well age .
in the most of the case , he nes' is not of citizens ordinary .
you confer here the right of access to of the information personal regarding of crowned personalities , that they owned to the world of the policy , to extend of the Arts or to a other .
I think that he is time that we fixions a limit .
the persons in view have many the right that not important who to the protection of their life privacy .
in this who respect the under - sub f ) and g ) , these persons will still in life for if there against .
they able , you suppose , if contact to the Commissioner or to the courts , or hand of other Order before the bill for do protect their information personal .
the clause to which I me am attard? and that I like do remove is the under - notwithstanding p.m. ) , transpired that the information personal carry be releases in the case where :
on what principle if based you for include a such clause in the bill of bill ?
in the Tab of information that the government has fact distribute to the members of the Committee , the explanation given for include this clause is the next :
the Act on the protection of the information personal treating of this question in 1604 of the definition of the information personal to the purposes of the bill the information personal regarding a human died since ninety years .
the approach restraint in this legislation legislative - side is more restricted , because she allows the disclosure of the information , but those - side remain subject to the bill .
he is true that the Act on the protection of the information personal , who has been agreed he there has few years , protects the information personal that diminish a institution federal to the about of special .
she exempte of his provisions in Equity of protection of the information regarding a human who is died since more of 20 years .
as I the have said to several other opportunities , he can there have of good reasons , on the plan of the policy government , of communicate after 20 years of the information personal that persons of the governments , of table these information to the refrain ; but that not has nothing to see with the bill of bill that we debating today today .
we debating a bill of bill regarding of the information personal collected in the sector private , and we we asking if a such clause should ceased .
when the officials have appeared before the Committee , I have asked the question next to Stephanie Perrin , Director of the Politique on the protection of the life privacy of the Group of work on the trade Electronic to the Department of the Industry :
if I understand well this section and this subsection , have - I reason of thinking that of the information personal collected by a body - a bank , a society of cartes of credit , a society hypoth?caire , a company of insurance , or what still - could be releases 20 years after the Late of the human in question ?
have - I reason of thinking therefore ?
Ms Perrin :
that means that he not is not necessary of ask the consent of the interested for negotiates that .
however , the disclosure of information must be valid to the words of the clause Current to the subject of the bill , of sort that he must there have a ground legitimate for the disclosure of the information in because .
he there has still a sure number of criteria .
all this that that said , this is that you not has not need of the consent for negotiates the information .
a little more far , she said :
you must actually your grounds , if you repr?sentez a body , for the raising , the use and the disclosure of information personal .
I me am order to the bill of bill for see this whose she spoke .
I have read the section 5 , who not is not really useful because that he not fact that we refer to the Printed 1 and who if states as following :
the employment of the conditionnel in the Printed evidence that he if is of a recommendation and not of a obligation .
I me am then order to the Printed 1 , where are viewed the principles .
this Printed treating primarily of the raising of information , and not not of disclosure .
to the Reading of the Printed , you news that the clause Current to the subject must be unwilling in preposition with the clause 4.5 of the Printed 1 , entitled : to Limitation of the use , of the communication and of the conservation to .
I me am therefore order to this clause , and that have - I found ?
I have found two or three paragraphs saying that the organizations to should to develop of the lines guidelines and apply of the procedures for the conservation of the information personal .
I have found a other clause who if states as following :
you should destroy , effacer or d?personnaliser the information personal whose you not has more need to the purposes pr?cit?es .
all that not is hardly useful in reason of a clause who provides that he would legal of negotiates of the information personal collected for of the grounds commercial 20 years after your Late .
then , Ms Perrin and me are wars in the details , and I like that the senators criticism all major their ears .
this clause commit essentially to of the purposes of refrain and historic .
of any obviously , you not have not still heard the archiviste and the historians .
why the should - he ?
you has already protected to their interests .
she continues in these words :
they are convinced that , if we not have not a clause allowing to the agencies private , to the businesses and to the institutions of communicate of the information to the companies historic in the purpose of preserve of the issues historic , a information of great value will unconscionable .
the bill of bill contains of the provisions providing the conservation of the information only also long that she is necessary for the purposes for expelling she has been recueillie , this who can strongly hire the institutions to destroy the information whose they not have more need .
by example , a company of insurance with who you not feriez more case would strongly encourag?e by this clause to eliminate the information you regarding when she not in has more need .
however , some information arise a interest historic .
a example used in the letters arises to the Minister is extend of the refrain of the Compagnie of the pushed of Hudson , whose similar - side has recently fact don .
D?truisez your card of credit of Position pushed , honourable senators .
he if is of the issues of the company .
if you upset in the bill of bill a clause who said that the information must be unconscionable when you not in have more need , who incorporated of the refrain ?
he rest to the Banking and to the companies of insurance the possible of shown that they have including for service of maintain of the information Brunswicker fundamental a importance historic .
she attempts of if justify by of the principles , but I not think not that that be acceptable .
let - me return on that .
he if is here of Affairs personal and of information personal collected to of the purposes trade .
you suggests hear that he could there have of good reasons historic for archiver all the information on Jean tien or on his predecessors or successors , that he if abhorrent of information on his issues of cartes of credit , of mortgage or of pharmacie .
I say that that not we problems not .
I say that this type of information personal not problems human .
of more , I say that we must understand the mentality , and I say that with a sure respect .
I hope always have a sure respect for the science , there including for the Science Social , but we must understand the mentality of the experts in Science Social , of the disquieting and of all the other .
they farm we do maintain all the suffice .
they farm we do maintain all the information , because they believe that these last are relevant , also personal or friends ensure - they .
they not common never that a across of paper hundred be destroyed , particularly if he respect someone a who is felt be relatively important , today today or in the history .
they insistent on the fact that these information their owned .
I must add that some witnesses representative of the groups of Defence of the life privacy and some advocates of the freedoms civilian were very difficulty preparing on this point .
I not believe not that they had thought to the question .
I have asked to a witness of the behalf of Murray Mollard , steering of the British Columbia Civil Liberties Association , this that he in relaxed .
his response has been :
I not believe not that we news a Position official to this about .
he if can that that gave or not someone something see with the debate in during on the census .
that not has nothing to see with the census .
we talking here of a question commercial .
he has said :
my notice spontan? , this is that 20 years , this not is not very long .
why 20 years , I not in know nothing .
and of add a little more later :
can - be my colleagues have - they someone something to add .
I not in see not the reason .
ninety years , that not me seems not very long .
I have fact referring yesterday to the testimony of a lawyer of the behalf of Ian Lawson , of the British - British , who is a expert of the right of the life privacy and a parent of our colleague , the Senator Kelly , this that , be said in way , I have discovered after suddenly .
he has said :
can - be the companion - I , but the right to the life privacy if applies in principle to a human peault .
I talking of the way of consider the interests in stake .
in fact , for this who is of the procedure and of the application of the rights to the protection of the life privacy , I me request if he would possible that the interest of a human be in stake if the human in question is morte .
r?fl?chissez to the question , honourable senators .
I not am not of agreed Mr. Lawson on this point .
he there has also all sorts of ramifications for the survivors of the individual in question .
however , the information personal becoming least exposure to the throughout and to legislation that the time proceeded .
this is can - be true , honourable senators , but this not is not , to my notice , a reason for communicate of the information personal to the about of this human .
she has said then :
he if is of find what would the deadline appropriate .
I not am not assiduously to a deadline .
he if can that a deadline of 20 years not be not sufficient .
this not is not a Position of principle .
for she , this is a question of time .
fortunately , the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy , Mr. Phillips , has been many more direct .
I you remind that he has been the partisan of the bill of bill the more agressif and the more strong to appear before the Committee .
I him have asked of justify this clause .
I will you read our Exchange .
I say :
... I you invite to justify in principle the clause of the bill of bill according which the information personal collected to of the purposes trade can be legally released 20 years after the death of the human that they originated .
justifiez That for we .
Mr. . Phillips :
I will try .
this clause is the even that similar who if find in the bill current on the protection of the information personal .
she has been written by of the people who , of any obviously , believe that the right to the protection of the information personal expire to the death .
the Senator Murray :
a jurist we has said the even something today today .
Mr. . Phillips :
if this is the case and if he if is of a principle agreed in right , I think that this is a principle regrettable .
I adopt a point of view different .
I have learned in my quality of High to the protection of the life privacy that many of people if concerned of the information personal who could tra?ner to left and to right after their death and of this that he where of these information .
he enough simply of thinking to the example of the efforts Process by well of the people to the about of the security and of the inviolabilit? of their documents personal after their death .
the assumption according which the people not have not the right to the protection of the life privacy of the fact that they are dead is , to my notice , all to fact unacceptable .
as we the know all the two , this argument is raised in a other context .
you provides now in the Act on the protection of the information personal that 20 years after the death of a human , the information personal not are more protected .
the Senator Murray :
he not there has no reason for apply that to the sector commercial as this bill of bill the fact , not is - this not ?
Mr. . Phillips :
I not getting not of distinction between the types of information .
this who important this is this that the dispose in think , Senator .
you have reason .
he must if ask why .
he has answered :
you me has said that the clause whose you have spoke was a rule of archivage yearly .
any disclosure should still meet the rest of the Code .
by example , the disclosure of information personal must be made to the purposes for expelling these information have been collected .
he is obvious that the Minister is in the mistake or that he not has not including my question .
if the information are collected for a request of card of credit or of mortgage or a order to the pharmacie , this is a something .
he is question here of the disclosure of information to the purposes of archivage for of the purposes statistics or for of the research ?rudites or any other something of the kind .
I not think not that he gave well including the question that I soulevais .
honourable senators , I have said to several occasions that , according me , the government and the Parliament who enter this bill of bill able if in enorgueillir .
in effect , he widening the scope of the Act on the protection of the information personal to the information personal collected in the sector commercial private .
however , the clause allowing the disclosure 20 years after the death of the interested is , according me , a serious deficiency of a legislation legislative by elsewhere excellent .
human not has could defend this clause in if remedied on of the principles , and I think that she is ind?fendable .
we know all that the protection of the life privacy has inexorably lost of the ground to the over of the years .
this is the experience that we have known until to now .
this is the sense of the clause that I want do eliminate of the bill of bill .
the right of hear and of communicate of the information not should not the just on all the other rights .
we can Authorize the Adopted of this clause and hope that she will always used of way responsible and in the respect of the rights legal in ever not existing of the persons who if are ?teintes , or still we can speak now and protect as we the should the life privacy of the people in this who respect the information admires personal collected by their institution , their lenders mortgage , their pharmaciens and other .
I hope that we going speak and do away this clause of the bill of bill .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I must you inform that , if the hon. Senator Kirby takes now the speak , his speech will assimilable to a debate of demons .
the Senator Kirby :
honourable senators , I finish me express to the about of the amendment but , what that he in be , I chair proposed the adjournment of the debate .
if I have well including the procedure , this is the amendment and not the motion regarding the third Reading who is to the study .
his Hon. the Speaker :
you can speak to the about of the amendment .
the Senator Kirby :
honourable senators , met given the uniqueness education , thought and dynamic evolve of the intervention of the Senator Murray , I not like not there answer of way inquire this after - afternoon and I prefer take the speak tomorrow after - afternoon .
I move the adjournment of the debate .
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , I called the speak he there has a moment order of ask the leave of ask a question to the Senator Murray .
are - you of agreed ?
his Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Roche :
this question respect the excellent remarks that has executing the Senator Murray and for which I the thank .
she reprenait and Dunton the words of a letter that the government albertain had submitted le16 November to the chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology .
he if is of a letter of subject disagreement against the bill of bill C - 6 .
I not will not the read , but I am prepared to the do circulation .
she not is not indications in the two languages , but I am prepared to the do circulation if a Senator not the has not still received .
short , the government of the Alberta written that this bill of bill be reconsidered and that you there supprime the sections who empi?tent on the jurisdiction provincial for give the time to the small and sized businesses of if prepare as he agreeable to the implementation in implement of the bill of bill and for allow the resuming of the consultation designed to ensure the protection of the information personal .
this is in substance this that request the Alberta .
the way of do usual is of appear before a Committee during that he examine the bill of bill in question .
I not want not me Services in a long discussion on the reason for which the representatives of the government of the Alberta not have not appeared before the Committee .
he seems that they shifted pr?sum? that the Committee has took in consideration the letter le November , and this is can - be well the case .
the hon. Senator Murray think he that the amendment that he just of present - and I have listened carefully when he in has presentation the uniqueness limitatif - meets of manner expeditiously to the objections raised by the government of the Alberta ?
if , that should - we do to this about to this step - side ?
we have a province who door a such interest to the bill of bill that you not should not move addition to his points of view in not the conclusion not enough in consideration before that the Senate not adopt the bill of bill in third Reading .
the Senator Murray :
first , I not believe not that the government of the Alberta if be concern of the clause that I objective to do remove of the bill of bill .
second , I must say to my hon. colleague that , during the debate of second Reading , I have expressed the opinion of a layman , to take for this that that worth , in saying that the bill of bill represents a fiscal valid and legitimate of the power of the government federal in Equity of trade .
third , a opinion more Cabinet in the Equity has been stated the other day before the Committee Mr. Tass? , a former under - Minister of the Justice , who is of notice that the bill of bill is in the limits of the powers of the Parliament federal .
fourth , the bill of bill includes a clause providing that this legislation not if apply not to the trade Interprovincial of a province who , in a deadline of three years , adopt a bill of bill to essentially similar to in Equity of protection of the life privacy .
fifth , well that all the 1993 broad of the Canada , to this that I far , shifted asked he there has long that the bill of bill be withdrawn for the reasons contained by the government of the Alberta , that not if is not fact .
of the representatives of the government of the Ontario are came before the Committee express their reserves to the regard of various aspects of the bill of bill , but they have refused of express a opinion or of affirming that the Ontario has a Position on the constitutionality of the bill of bill .
when you their has asked specifically this that they in pensaient , they have simply answered that this was there Equity to discussion .
a witness heard by the Committee has said that the constitutionality of the bill of bill would inevitably challenged before the courts , and I believe that the future him occasionally reason .
the Senator Roche :
I thank the Senator Murray for this response .
he has said that the problem could be corrected if the provinces adoptaient of the laws essentially similar to similar of the government federal .
the Alberta has exactly mentioned this point in the letter in saying that , since the expression to essentially similar to not was not widest in the bill federal , she was too general for allow that of the laws correspondantes ensure adopted .
the Senator Murray :
honourable senators , I not difference not the argument raised by the government of the Alberta to the about of the uniqueness enough General of the expression to essentially similar to .
however , I points that the only province who has a bill dealt is the Quebec .
the Minister of the Industry , speaking to the behalf of the government , has already indicated that he jugeait the bill of the Quebec essentially similar to the bill federal .
further to the other provinces , they have three years for consult and discuss .
I believe know that the Alberta is in considering of write a bill of bill .
this province not is not multitude in the black .
she can discuss to extension of the question with the government federal , this that she fact .
of after the remember that I Access of a modified career , the service public mysterious account of the counsel extremely competent in the field of the relations federal - provincial .
I if brought to believe that he not is not files that the Alberta convey evidence of good showing and cheques a bill of bill adapt? to his needs who be essentially similar to the bill federal .
( on the motion of the Senator Kirby , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Third Reading
- honourable senators , we know strong well now the substance of the bill of bill C - 7 , who is a important legislation .
we in have already been before to the during of the session modified .
since that he has been presented the first time , the bill of bill has greatly advantage of the work of the Committee Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , who has developed to the day of serious flaws in the bill of bill .
the Solicitor General has answered with a largesse of spirit and a speed admirables in ?laborant of the amendments designed to improve the bill of bill .
in his wording present , the bill of bill step , to my sense , a addition very useful to the right Canadian .
for the essential , this legislation help to the protection of the children and of other persons vulnerable who could be the coolest of pr?dateurs sexual .
honourable senators , he is important of note that he there will of important sauvegardes in this who respect the rights of the persons r?habilit?es .
we take very to the seriously the integrity of the system of rehabilitative .
the access to the information personal on the offender will limited to the policiers authorized and to the staff of the agencies mercy of apply the bill .
the postulant need sign a accompany by which he hear to this that the you check deposited of the branch general of the refrain criminal if he there has in the fichier automatis? a indication allowing of determine if he there to his about a file or a increased of a condemnation .
the accompany of consent indiquera that the behalf of this human found in the branch normally scell?e and containing the names of persons r?habilit?es .
the access to this indication not will possible that in concerning a sure Code in the computer .
this are of important sauvegardes .
in addition , through to the work of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , the bill of bill specific now that he if applies only to the persons recognized guilty of a offence sexual who are r?habilit?es .
in this who respect the other offences , the issues of rehabilitative remain scell?s .
the definitions data in the bill of bill have been greatly weaponry .
the bill of bill contains now the definition signing to children to and of to persons vulnerable to .
met given that this bill has been seconded by all the parties in the other place , of even that by the ministers provincial and territorial of the Justice and the authorities hires of the application of the laws across to the Canada , I believe that we must the support .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill amended is read a third time and adopted . )
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
Adopted of the report of the Committee of the Finance national on the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A )
the Senate proceeded to the study of the second report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national ( Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) , 99 - 2000 ) , presented to the Senate the 2 December 99 .
the hon. Anne C . Cools ( beyond behalf of the Senator Murray ) move :
that the report be adopted .
- honourable senators , I like speak very briefly , now , of this motion who transpires the more great importance and , by emphasis , of the second report of our Committee of the Finance national on the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) , 99 - 2000 .
the honourable senators indicate that this report is full and that he contains of the details important on the study of our Committee .
I conclusion that the report is the better tribute that you can pay to the Committee .
the Committee of the Finance national is responsible of examine the forecasts budget for the Senate ; he assistance the Senate to duties his obligations parliamentarians , who consistent to examine the forecasts robust and designs of Estimates of the government .
the Committee if is met the Tuesday 23 November 99 order of entendreM. Richard Lieff bearer Andrew Lieff , representatives of the Council of the Treasury .
these two officials have fact evidence of the more great openness in their evidence and they have answered to the questions of the senators with many of care and of attention .
this last we has informed that he quittait his duties current for become comptrollership General Deputy .
he we has also informed that he 7.6 his new duties to the beginning of December .
I think that I talking to the behalf of all the senators who sit to the Committee and of all the senators in General when I timely our gratitude and our appreciation for his contributions and for the assistance that he we has embraced to the Committee to the during of the years , and I think that I talking also to the behalf of all the senators when I him wish the more great success in the future .
honourable senators , I like also go this opportunity for thank all the members of the Committee for this that I believe be their study attendee of the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) , and I the thank of their work relentlessly .
I like also thank the Senator Lowell Murray , who has guided of a labour firm , fair and experte the Committee in his deliberations .
I like also in advantage for add the welcome , to the within of the Committee , to two new senators , be the Senator Finnerty and the Senator Finestone .
her the Senator Finestone me informed that she not had not the intention of remain to this Committee , but since that she has attended to his first meeting , she has concluded that he if 13 of a good Committee where sit .
that said , honourable senators , I you urge to adopt this report .
his Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
bill of bill admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical
second Reading - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Carstairs , seconded by the hon. Senator pin , seconded to the second Reading of the bill of bill S - 2 , Act admissibility the taken of decisions Medical legitimate relatively to the treatment of survival and to the treatment of the pain . - (
the hon. Senator Lavoie - Lavoie )
the hon. Rose - Marie Losier - Losier :
honourable senators , I request the leave of speak to the step of the second Reading of the bill of bill S - 2 , placed to the Order of the day to the behalf of the Senator Lavoie - Lavoie .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the leave is - she granted ?
Dex Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Losier - Losier :
the d?mographie of the needs in Equity of health is , without doubt , in evolution continuing .
since 1997 , 40 per of the Canadians and of the delay seniors of to the least 30 years are the coping of to the least a member of their family .
to the Canada , a adulthood happens , in average , more of years to soigner a parent that to rise a child .
in approval account of the fact of our population always society , he is time , honourable senators , that a initiative such this bill of bill be business to the Canada .
today today , I like draw your attention on the section 6 of this bill of bill , who intended to disseminating , in cooperation with the authorities provincial and the associations of the professionals of the health , the institution of lines guidelines national relatively to the forbearance and the interruption of the treatment of survival , to the treatment of the pain and to the care palliative , to promote and to encourage the education of the great public regarding the treatment of the pain by the means medical and to improve the training of the professionals of the health in this who respect the treatment of the pain and the care palliative .
honourable senators , he responsibility to the government federal of establish of the standards who direct a quality of care palliative therefore that a accessibility to these care for all the Canadians and the delay who in have need .
the care palliative should be pursuance to the other services of health and id?alement , they should be significantly the same of a region to the other .
as the has underlined the Dr. James McGregor , of the Ontario Palliative Care Association , during of the meetings of the Committee Senate Special on the Assisted and the assistance to the suicide , and I quote :
he responsibility to the society , by the business of the government , of the presents of the care of health , of the agencies professionals and of the professionals of the health , of offer the resources necessary for ensure a system of support intensif to the intention of the unevenly and of their families .
to this end , he must expand the sector of the care palliative of way to guarantee that the skills The are easily available and availability to all .
he is unfortunate that of the Canadians and delay continue of die in the suffering because that they not have not access to these skills .
honourable senators , the institution of standards national in Equity of care palliative respond to the needs of the more patients of our society .
I like highlight the importance of the initiative of the Senator Carstairs , who would for purpose of promote a approach int?gr?e and of pay effective and availability the services of care palliative to across the Canada .
the care palliative are designed for answer not only to the needs physical but also psychological , social , Cultural , ?motionnels and spirituels of each human and of his family .
the care palliative help the persons patients in end of life to live the time that he their rest in the comfort and the dignity .
they are asset in end of life and to of the cycles more multifaceted of the illness .
according a section of the Globe The Mail The the 7 December 99 , four Canadians on five feel that the care to home should do part of a program of care of health gratuit and universal .
the poll indication also that the quarter of the patients pay already of the fees challenges and that a patient on nine who has need of assistance not receives not of care to home , fault of resources financial .
the most of the persons who have answered to the poll have said that the quality of the care let to wanting , because the government has imposed of the limits on the number authorized of p.m. of care gratuits and that they not had not the means of if offer a assistance Supplementary .
that said , we should nurturing and pay availability to the more great number possible of citizens of the care palliative of quality who view to their needs .
I like quote as example the Dr. Ferguson , Leader of the program of Hospital extra - mural of the New - Brunswick , for illustrate the need of institutionnaliser the care palliative in the framework of the services of health to the Canada .
I quote the Dr. Ferguson :
in well of the provinces , the care to home if are d?velopp?s more or least in the framework of a bill or of a program .
home we , to the New - Brunswick , they doing part of the system .
we go believe that we have a approach different and we seek to do in sort that they ensure used more effectively .
hence our objective , in all case .
I am proud that my province of the New - Brunswick be in advance in the development of the care palliative to the Canada .
I wish that with the support of the Senate and of the House of the Commons , we able adopt of such standards to across the country .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , if no other Senator not wishes take the speak , this section will remain to the Order of the day to the behalf of the Senator Lavoie - Lavoie .
branch Canadian of the church morave of am?rique
bill of bill private designed to amend the Act of incorporation - Third Reading
the hon. Senator Corbin ) .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill , read a third time , is adopted . )
the business of the Senate
Order to the Rules - Ruling of the Speaker
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , before that we not emotions to the motion of adjournment , yesterday , I have invoqu? the Rules with the Senator Kinsella to the about of the acceptability of a report presented by a member of a Committee who , seems he , not was not authorized to the do to the behalf of the Committee .
I had believed understand that His Hon. equitably his decision there - above , because the Committee of the Affairs foreign has already meant a meeting for discuss of the question formula in this report .
I want me ensure that the Order to the Rules is corrected before that this Committee not entreprenne the study of a report who him has been referred .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , this who if snapshots to the within of the committees not falls not of my jurisdiction .
this are the committees them - same who decision of their operating .
however , in this who respect the Presented of reports , I you refer to the subsection 97 ( 1 ) , who said :
the report of a Committee particular must be presented by the chairman of the Committee or by a Senator appropriately by the chairman .
when a report is presented , I not have not the power of me ask if the Senator the showing has been appropriately for this do .
I wish for prior that the chairman of the Committee the has appropriately .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
the Exchange of yesterday with the Senator Tkachuk , deputy - chairman of the Committee , has revealed that the Committee not had not appropriately the Senator Hervieux - Hervieux for present the report .
the hon. Leo E . Kolber :
honourable senators , I devais present the report the week last , but you me has said of expect .
I chair could the do today today , but not yesterday .
we stopped that he be presented yesterday .
therefore , as I believe in have the right , I have responsible the Senator Hervieux - Hervieux of the do .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
the Rules is very clear .
this not is not the chairman of the Committee who d?l?gue this power , but the Committee .
his Hon. just of quote the subsection 97 ( 1 ) of the Rules .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the Rules said that this is the chairman who must designate his replacement .
I repeat the text of the section :
the report of a Committee particular must be presented by the chairman of the Committee or by a Senator appropriately by the chairman .
as the chairman has said that he had given his Authorized , the case 730 to my authority .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
honourable senators , I not want not delay the study of the bill of bill .
I presented my apologize to the Senator Kolber for have suggested that his Committee not had can - be not respected the Rules .
the second question who had been raised was of know how transfer a report , during the Affairs occasion , of the Senate to a other Committee without that the Senate gave his word to say in the Equity .
if the senators prefers that I in talking with the Speaker after these deliberations order that we can move to of other business to 15 p.m. 30 , I me invoke a happy of ask to the Senator Hays of present the motion of adjournment .
however , he is to my notice important that all the honourable senators familiar exactly the procedure followed and that she their be expliqu?e when she is for them , as this is here my case , source of confusion .
his Hon. the Speaker :
if the honourable senators are loans to me listen , I will try of clarification the second part of the Order to the Rules .
the history has reductions the week last , and I have quoted the Journals of the Senate of the 24 November , regarding the decision taken by the Senate to the about of the bill of bill S - 3 :
the bill of bill is then read the second time .
the hon. Senator Hays move , seconded by the hon. Senator Mercier , that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade .
after debate ,
with the leave of the Senate and pursuant Island section 30 of the Rules , the motion is amended and if reads as following :
that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade and to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign .
the motion , such that amended , implementation to the Senators , is agreed .
honourable senators , this is there a procedure strong unusual .
he not between certainly not in the rules of the art of refer a even bill of bill to two committees .
after all , how if there takes - you for ending to this result ?
by therefore , if I have well including , the bill of bill has been referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade .
the Committee the has examined and no amendment not has been proposed .
the Committee has presented a report to the about of the bill of bill .
I must you refer to the subsection 97 ( 4 ) of the Rules , who specific this who following :
when a Committee fact report of a bill of bill without amendment , obedience report is considered as adopted without no motion ; the Senator who situations the bill of bill move then that the third Reading in be made a other day .
however , as I just of the read , the Senate had ordered the referred of the bill of bill to the other Committee .
therefore , a Committee having fact report of the bill of bill without proposals of amendment , I have concluded that he not needed not move to the third Reading of the bill of bill because that he party still be referred to the other Committee .
this is this that the Senate has decided .
he had been expected of the refer to the other Committee , and this is this that said the motion .
I know how you would could act words to the about of the report account held of the decision taken by the Senate the week modified .
I had the hands related by the decision of the Senate of refer the bill of bill to two committees .
I not see not how you would could act words for apply the decision of the Senate .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
he would been preferable , to the time of the Tabled of the report and to the appeal of the third Reading , that the Senate notwithstanding , for be therefore with his decision : to Conformity bill of bill not will not read a third time .
we have decided of the refer to a Committee . to
I have had the Appendix that the Speaker has short - circuit? the Senate .
for some , this not is that a detail insignificant , but I think that he important that he continues of return to the senators of determine this that he fate of a bill of bill or of a report .
I understand the situation in which the senators of the side defeated have developed Your Hon. , since this are them who have decided of refer the bill of bill to two committees .
the Senator Hays has learned the situation to the clear the second day .
each time that the senators of the side defeated sugg?reront of refer a even bill of bill to two committees , the honourable senators can be amorphous that we basis the first to we there against .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , since he we rest few minutes before of rise the sitting , and since this is me who am the author of this new procedure , a procedure who slogan to my notice of very well operate , I like advantage of the opportunity for say few words to this about .
I have fact the subject of criticism urgently of the share of my colleagues and of Your Hon. , therefore that of the share of the other author , could - I say , of this procedure , well that I doubt that he in accept the paternit? .
I want that the you understands well that the situation is unusual .
however , the instructed given by the Senate is enough clear , of sort that the Speaker the has well doubly .
this is there where ahead the risk of confusion .
the way whose we , to the Senate , have tried of resolve the problem , this was , to my suggestion , of provide in the Order that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade , this who has been fact , and that a time that this Committee would concluded his review , this who if is fact , the bill of bill be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign for that he the examine to his turn .
the solution agreed not will however not until to say how the Senate must if office of the question of manner to avoid the problem of procedure that arise of the reports successive .
the solution that we has proposed His Hon. me craft good .
the instructed to this regard must be considered as a Order Special of the Senate proposed with the leave of the Term 24 November and providing that , notwithstanding the subsection 97 ( 4 ) of the Rules , the bill of bill is considered referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign .
that respect exactly the instructed that the Senate has given to the two committees who have been mercy of examine the bill of bill .
by therefore , honourable senators , I believe that this way of proceed step the better solution and that she changed .
I understand the concerns of the Senator Staunton - Lynch and of other senators , who concerned that this way of do not be not acceptable .
however , this is a solution that we have essay?e .
I not am not satisfied that we the essaierons to new .
what that he in be , of after this that I have said and this that His Hon. has proposed for avoid the problems attracted by this case to the Senate , I believe that this way of proceed changed .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I draw your attention on the section EH of the Rules , who said follows :
the chairman of the Committee must sign or parafer a copy printed of the bill of bill where the amendments are clear enrolled ...
I know that this is the practice followed , but I not sometimes not to find the section of the Rules who said that a bill of bill whose report is fact without proposals of amendment must also be signed .
what that he in be , yesterday , the bill of bill is came not signed on the office of the Clerk .
we have asked of the questions and he has been referred to the Senator Hervieux - Hervieux , who the has signed .
I me request if the rule stated to the section EH of the Rules , who said that the chairman of the Committee must sign the bill of bill , if applies also to a bill of bill reported without proposals of amendment .
his Hon. the Speaker :
for answer to the hon. Senator Kinsella , I know if he there a clause of the Rules who the specific .
of after this that I know , and this is the use , the chairman of the Committee sign the bill of bill when he is tabled on the Board .
I not see not the bills of bill when they are introduced .
I am course that the Clerk check if they are sign?s .
if they not the are not , I am course that the Clerk contacte the chairman of the Committee .
the Senator Kinsella :
the chairman of the Committee was absent .
this is therefore a other member of the Committee who the has signed .
the Senator Kolber :
honourable senators , I me bring a happy of the sign .
the Senator Hays :
the Senator Kinsella has fact pointed this who is without doubt a deputy .
the suggestion of the Senator Kolber me craft good .
the Senator Kinsella :
I objective only to protect the rights of the minority in this place .
the most of the chairmen of Committee are of the senators owned to the party government .
few - each are abrogate of our side , all as the are of elsewhere the deputy - chairmen .
in the absence of the chairman , this is the deputy - chairman who should act to his place .
the Senator Kolber :
the section EH respect a bill of bill who has been amended .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
we want fair that the senators of the party government trap the minority .
his Hon. the Speaker :
he would without doubt useful that the Clerk specific the something and signal a message to all the table of committees order of concerning any confusion .
I like now address the question raised by the hon. Senator Staunton - Lynch , who has said that he would favourite that be called the third Reading of the bill of bill .
if we had fact that , we side achievement to the conflict of the decision of the Senate , according which the bill of bill party be referred to two committees .
when a bill of bill is adopted without proposals of amendment , he not there has not of discussion .
you must move directly to the step of the third Reading .
referred case , we not gone not could refer the bill of bill whose he question to the other Committee , as the Senate in had decided .
this is there the difficulty before which we we dealing .
honourable senators , pursuant to the Order of the Senate , as he is 15 p.m. 30 , I leaving the Chair .
( the Senate if adjourned to 14 p.m. tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 19
the Thursday 9 December 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
' ' '
the Ontario
the Act on the restructuring regional - Position proposal of declare Ottawa officially bilingual - Conformity refusal of the Prime Minister spend
the Fisheries and the Oceans
the viability of the fishing to the salmon on the Coast west - Position need of a assistance of emergency - Position extend of the hunger of Dan Edwards
doctors of the world
the Day international of the rights of the man
the Fisheries and Oceans
closure of the Fisheries of salmon Red of the River Fraser - Program of reimbursement of the fees of licences - Gr?ve of the hunger of Dan Edwards
the Ontario
the Act on the restructuring regional - LE refusal of the government spend of designate Ottawa as city bilingual - Position Position of the Federation of the communities francophones and accadienne
the bill regarding the restructuring regional - Conformity refusal of declare officially Ottawa city bilingual
the bill of implementation in implement of the agreed on the Station spatiale international civil
visitors of Gallery
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
the business of the Senate
Tabled of the guide to the intention of the senators on the condition of the persons disabilities
the Quebec
the advice school linguistic - Modification of the section 93 of the Constitution - Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Special
the ascertain tabled pursuant to the Act on the transport to the Canada Authorize some carriers Threat unambiguous to negotiate and to conclude any agreement naively - Presented of the second report of the Committee
the Act of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
report of the Committee
bill of bill of 99 on the implementation in implement of conventions tax
report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign
Economy Economy , Budgets and Administration
Presented of the second report of the Committee
review of the regulatory
Presented of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing
Access and right of visit of the children
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Special
Affairs foreign
notice of motion designed to Authorize the Committee to until the date of Presented of the report final of the study Current to the amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
the Ontario
the Act on the restructuring regional - Conformity refusal of the government spend of adopt the recommendation designed to do of Ottawa a city bilingual - Notice of inquiry
the Senate
notice of motion confirmant the procedure of Assent Royal
PERIOD PERIOD question
the transport
the Divestiture of wharves public - Position divestiture of the pier of the Island Thetis to the bunch Indian of the Island Kuper
the Defence national
the problems m?caniques of the frigates of aliens
the Alternative of the fleet of helicopters Sea King - Conformity time of the announcement
the Affairs Social , the Science and the Technology
the bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and of the documents electronic - Conformity Opposition of the government albertain
the environment
the announcement by the Alberta of his intention of Authorize the treatment of wastes dangerous imported to the centre of treatment of Swan Hills - Position Position of the government
the agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis home the c?r?aliculteurs of the Western - R?ponse of the government
Questions delayed to of the questions Oral
the Justice
the cost of the program of registration of the weapons to gun - Position responsibility of the Minister
the Defence national
the Alternative of the canoeing of helicopters Sea King - Position request of copy of the statement of the needs
visitor of Gallery
Order OF orders
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
third Reading
speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Continued of the debate
bill of bill admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical
second Reading - Continued of the debate
Library of the Parliament
Adopted of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing
languages official
Adopted of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing
review of the policy Canadian antidrogues
motion Authorize the training of a Committee Senate Special - Continued of the debate
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
motion Requesting to the Committee of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology of scinder the bill of bill in two - Withdrawn of the section
the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations
inquiry - Continued of the debate
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
notice of motion Authorize Authorized to the Committee of the Finance national of study the Budgets of the Estimates - Motion of amendment - Stands of the debate
the Summit of the Francophonie
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate - Maintien of the section
the rights of the human and the conflict multiethniques
inquiry - adjournment of the debate
Library of the Parliament
withdrawal of the motion Authorize Authorized to the Committee Joint Standing of sit during the sittings of the Senate
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
motion Authorize Authorized to the Committee of study the state of the system of health - Adjourned of the debate
adjournment
the SENATE
the Thursday 9 December 99
the sitting is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker met to the Chair .
prayers .
the Ontario
the Act on the restructuring regional - Position proposal of declare Ottawa officially bilingual - Conformity refusal of the Prime Minister spend
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , I not am not surprised of the decision of the government spend Mr. Harris of refuse the recommendation of his expert - board in Equity of restructuring municipale or regional .
this is the behaviour evolve of Lin Harris and company when he if is of the rights of the francophones .
he there has more of 40 years that I me nat of this question , as to the level school , of the health , of the services social and now , to the level City .
I have always been present and I have the intention of continue to do my work .
let - me you say that the question is far of be resolved .
yesterday , Mr. Harris Compensating , according the media , that he had many fact for the Canadians French of the Ontario .
he not said not that to each time , each of the gains obtained in the areas of the education , of the health and of the Affairs municipal him have been mobile by the courts or by the opinion public .
to numerous occasions , he has qu?t? of the funds to the government federal for fund these changes .
honourable senators , we pave all the measures to our clause for do in sort that the government spend Mr. Harris change of opinion , of Position and reclassification bilingual the new city of Ottawa , the capital of the country .
hurt positive , honourable senators , let the new Administration municipale decide of the elements of the bilingualism of this Administration .
honourable senators , we pave of the measures incitatives .
we him recommanderons of correct his affront to the equity and to the justice , order of meet the equality of the two languages official in the capital of the country .
Mr. . Harris plays a stake dangerous in insulting the Canadians French and give therefore to some persons a condition gagnante .
enough the folies !
Mr. Harris , we not are not impressionn?s !
the Fisheries and the Oceans
the viability of the fishing to the salmon on the Coast west - Position need of a assistance of emergency - Position extend of the hunger of Dan Edwards
the hon. Pat Carney :
honourable senators , this week , a man who risk his life for help the population of the communities coastal of the British - British was in my office for ask the assistance of the government federal and of the Senate .
Dan Edwards , a p?cheur of the Island of Vancouver , on the Coast west , in is to his forty - fifth day of extend of the hunger for draw the attention on our communities coastal who are devastated economically and socially by the collapse this year of the montaisons of salmon Red of the River Fraser .
Mr. . Edwards has met the senators twins Perrault etGerry Comeau and me - even for describe his frustration .
all this that Dan written for put a term to his extend of the hunger , this is that the government federal negotiating with the government provincial and the stakeholders for find a way of come in assistance to the people of the communities who in have a need if Tisserant .
until to now , the appropriation federal are 118.8 to hire the people to leave the sector of the fishing and not to help the fishermen who little of the difficulties to if in slipping .
honourable senators , he not there will not of fishing viable on the Coast west if all the fishermen having the skills and the experience necessary are forced of leave the sector of the fishing to the following of the program of buy .
he must of the fishermen for have a fishing viable .
the Auditor General is of agreed with Dan .
in his report the more recent , he has fact referring regularly to the need of support a fishing viable .
he has said :
the challenge that must met the managers of the Department of the Fisheries and of the Oceans introducing to maintain the stocks current and to restore those who are low , all in now the viability of the fisheries .
he met that the Department adapte his regime of management to of new realities and consult the whatsoever and the support of the stakeholders if he means succeed .
he has also underlined the need of :
... solve the problems related to the consultation order of improve the reports with the stakeholders and of create report of the partnerships for share the responsibilities 2.4 to the management and cover the costs .
this is this that Dan Edwards request .
until to now , the government federal not constantly of answer to the requests of assistance of the communities that the program of 400 million of $ announced the year last for do opposite to the crisis dealing the salmon coho allow also of solve the problem of the salmon Red this year .
seen that the regime of insurance - employment not assistance not the fishermen who not have not could continuation , force is to the fishermen aboriginal and not aboriginal of if in back to the assistance social .
such is the situation in the communities where , this year , of the fishermen have invested , in some case , of the tens of thousands of $ in devices of fishing and in fees of starts , and that , for a fishing who not has not had held .
Dan represents a coalition baptis?e Fraser oversees Sockeye Crisis Standing .
she covers the communities coastal who crient refer fault of assistance .
Dan has lost 50 books since the beginning of the extend of the hunger .
he is physiquement bedrock , but not has nothing lost of his determination .
the Senator twins Perrault and me - even have exhort? Dan to not not put his days in danger , but he is resolved to not not eat before that someone a if interest to his case .
well course , the government federal can negotiate with the province and the various stakeholders order of develop a plan designed to provide a assistance of emergency to the people who live these communities of the British - British .
the collapse of the sector of the salmon sockeye in the River Fraser is a disaster natural .
he there of the practices to use in case of disaster natural order of help those who are incomes affected .
they have been implemented in implement in Ontario and to the Quebec after the storm of ice .
you has fact of even to the New - Brunswick in 1998 when the fish have been victims of a virus .
I fear that , if he sometimes someone something to Dan Edwards , the situation r?gnant in the communities , who is already pushed , not trading volatile .
he we must show that we have the showing policy necessary for solve this problem who affects of the communities as aboriginal that not aboriginal , before that a tragedy human not if Grits on the Coast .
doctors of the world
the hon. Marisa Ferretti Ferretti :
honourable senators , I draw your attention on a initiative lanc?e by the organization M?decins of the third , who intended to contribute of the care medical to the young itin?rants of Montreal .
of after the stakeholders who working deposited of the young itin?rants , you d?nombrerait in this time de2 100,000 to 5 100,000 young without - homeless to Montreal .
these young are d?sorganis?s .
often , they not have not of card of insurance - illness .
by experience , they know that they not will not well received when they if pr?senteront to the emergency .
they are therefore in bad health .
doctors of the third has developed on foot to the months of January a team volante of doctors who reaches reach directly the young where they if find , this is - to - say in the street .
I wishes conclude with these words of the Dr. R?jean Thomas , responsible of this wonderful bill , who Compensating to a journalist that the body wanted if attack to the problems that disclose the poor of a country rich .
hence a initiative who should help to inevitable these young who live in the street and in the misery .
I you invite all , honourable senators , to you awareness to the problem of the young itin?rants of our society .
to Montreal , to our centre community for persons seniors , all almost of CBC - Canada , on the boulevard Ren? - L?vesque , we going striking , the 26 December , the Prime of a series of days to the during describes we offrirons the asile and the meals , without discrimination of age , to all the itin?rants of the city of Montreal .
this initiative changed well , and you able offer of the meals any the end of week .
of the people there will for secourir these persons the samedis and dimanches , because he not there has nothing for these persons left to they - same .
we have thought that in beginning the 26 December , we able the help each end of week also long that he we will possible of the do .
the Day international of the rights of the man
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , the 10 December Gallery the Day international of the rights of the man .
in this end of millennium , the Canada and the world around can be proud of the instruments , pactes and other mechanisms ?labor?s by the Nations Nations and of other organizations for awareness the public to the fact that all the beings human naissent equal in dignity and in rights .
however , he is regrettable of see still as of atrocities and of see that the persons the more vulnerable of our society are still , aged , the more many to losing their life , their dignity and their security .
the Declaration Universal of the rights of the man not is not enough respected for give held to the r?jouissances .
he is important that all the Canadians m?ditent on our contribution to the promotion of the respect of the rights of the human and on the place priority that must office this question in our calendar and in extend of the state .
the parliamentarians have the responsibility of if ensure that the words and the actions of the Canada , to the ?chelon national and to the ?chelon international , are well consistent with the statements , pactes and other instruments whose the Canada is signatory .
we not must not we settle of examine minutieusement the case of violation of the rights of the human and we not must not let the factors economic or political the just on the respect of the rights human basic who boat as to heart to our society .
in as that parliamentarians , we we must of ensure to this that our respect of the rights human not be not s?lectif or al?atoire , and to this that we not soulevions not this question only expediency by of the groups of interests or the media .
the respect of the rights human must be constantly to the basic of all our actions .
we must therefore we strive of adopt of the practices and of the procedures to the support of the application continuing , continues and impartiale of the rights of the human .
I urge of new the leaders of the Senate to put immediately on foot a Committee of the rights of the human , as I the have of elsewhere proposed in the framework of a motion to the during of the last session .
a such Committee we step of do many for the million of persons who have lost the life or of other freedoms fundamental .
the Fisheries and Oceans
closure of the Fisheries of salmon Red of the River Fraser - Program of reimbursement of the fees of licences - Gr?ve of the hunger of Dan Edwards
the hon. Raymond J . Perrault :
honourable senators , I have release today today with the Minister of the Fisheries and I me am also spoken Mr. Dan Edwards , gr?viste of the hunger .
I have obtained some information whose I like do share to the Senate .
to account held of the circumstances exceptional victimized to the during of the season of fishing to the salmon of 99 , Fisheries and Oceans Canada remboursera the fees of licences to the fishermen commercial who have suffering of serious impact financial to the following of the Williams orchestrated in the Fisheries of salmon Red of the River Fraser to the during of the been to , has claimed the Minister Dhaliwal .
to I have asked to the officials of my Department of do all this that they could for trying of render the cheques of reimbursement of here No . to
to approximately two million of $ will paid directly to approximately 1 slightly choose of licences or owners of dock to , has soulign?M. Dhaliwal .
honourable senators , I have also in labour of other data , but he would too long of in do share to the Senate to the hour current .
the government takes of the measures in view of met this challenge .
Mr. . Edwards is very encouraged of know that the Minister could well enter in touch with him this after - afternoon .
the Ontario
the Act on the restructuring regional - LE refusal of the government spend of designate Ottawa as city bilingual - Position Position of the Federation of the communities francophones and accadienne
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , I like you read a letter submitted to the honorableTony Perry , Minister of the Affairs municipal and of the fellow of the Ontario .
I quote :
Mr. the Minister ,
I hear by the through of the media , that your government had chosen of not not give the status bilingual to the new city of Ottawa who regroupera11 municipalities existing .
the Federation of the communities francophones and acadienne of the Canada you has wrote , the 7 December last , and she synth?tise very well the arguments benefiting the bilingualism to Ottawa .
by therefore , he is needless of if repeat .
I sharing the principles and the feelings views by the Federation .
in as that Parliamentary French , he is very important for me of purposeful in a city who respect and removing my language tongue .
he is also very essential that I can me feel home me in the capital national .
I hope that the question of the unilinguisme to Ottawa become all simply a misunderstanding of the share of the journalists .
I you please of front me enlighten on this question .
honourable senators , I you invite to support the principle expressed by the Federation of the communities francophones and acadienne of the Canada therefore that the concept of the respect to Ottawa of the two languages official .
the bill regarding the restructuring regional - Conformity refusal of declare officially Ottawa city bilingual
the hon. Colin Kenny :
honourable senators , I speak today today of the situation linguistic of the region of Ottawa .
in quality of resident of Ottawa , of Senator of the Ontario and of English , I me must of speak to the about of the question of the language in the new city of Ottawa deaths of the merger , who failing the day the 1 January 2001 .
to the hour current , Ottawa is a city officially bilingual .
our country account two languages official , and he is all to fact natural that his capital be bilingual , not only because that of the francophones live in the region , but also because that the region should be the mirrors of the nature of the country in his together .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Kenny :
the bilingualism not step in nothing a reviews in the region of Ottawa .
he fact part of his history and should be guaranteed in the future of the region .
be said in way , the new city deaths of the merger and the city of Hull accueilleront conjunction the Games of the Francophonie in the year 2001 .
of fact , the region of Ottawa - Hull screening of recording between the provinces , he not is that natural that the status bilingual of the city of Ottawa be recognized to the level provincial .
in his report , Mr. Glen Shortliffe said that the region of Ottawa step a organizes particular and recommends that the new city of Ottawa be to pantheon city bilingual by the bill and offer of the services in the two languages official when the situation the warranted to .
the province has win the majority of the advice Mr. Shortliffe , but she has chosen of not not hold account of this proposal .
the citizens of Ottawa and of the Canada want and should obtain the insurance that Ottawa will officially bilingual when will held the merger .
in quality of Prime Minister , Mr. Harris must recognize the importance of do of Ottawa a city bilingual .
he must do evidence of leadership in this file , do of Ottawa a city bilingual and eliminate all part of uncertainty .
the bill of implementation in Bill of the agreed on the Station spatiale international civil
the reasons of the forbearance during the study section by section
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , the Committee of the Affairs foreign appear more later today today a report regarding the bill of bill C - 4 , Act of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil .
my reasons listed in the account realized of the comit?du 7 December , to the page 10 .
of the Senators :
the Senator Grafstein :
if he you pleasure , that the honourable senators me suggest complete and they able then rise of the objections .
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , this is the period of the statements ; this not is not the time of give of the explanation on of the reports .
the Senator Grafstein :
honourable senators , since you not me give not the opportunity of take the speak of the step of the report , I have thought that I could use the period of the statements of senators for give the reasons of my forbearance .
visitors of Gallery
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I you attention the presence to our gallery of few visitors of Gallery .
they are useful by the hon. Senator Wilson .
we their wish the welcome to the Senate of the Canada .
he there has also a delegation of 10 experts russes who represent the government federal and some governments regional of the Russia ; this are of the exposure in various areas of the Affairs related to the appropriation mortgage .
they come of complete a period of training of three weeks here , in our system Canadian of credit hypoth?caire .
we their wish the welcome to the Senate of the Canada .
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
the business of the Senate
Tabled of the guide to the intention of the senators on the condition of the persons disabilities
the hon. M. Robertson :
honourable senators , I like present a small feuillet entitled : to Guide to the intention of the senators on the condition of the persons handicapp?s to , and I ask to the Clerk of the distribute to the Editor of the senators .
[ French [
the Quebec
the advice school linguistic - Modification of the section 93 of the Constitution - Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Special
the hon. Lucie pin :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the report of the Committee Joint Special on the section 93 of the Act constitutional of 1867 , regarding the system school of the Quebec , relatif to the Estimates incurred by the Committee to the during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
the ascertain tabled pursuant to the Act on the transport to the Canada Authorize some carriers Threat unambiguous to negotiate and to conclude any agreement naively - Presented of the second report of the Committee
the hon. Lise Bacon , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of Communications , presented the report following :
the Thursday 9 December 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications has the honour of present his
second REPORT
your Committee , who has been authorized by the Senate the 14 October 99 to examine , for in do report , pursuant to the subsection 47 ( 5 ) of the Act on the transport to the Canada , the ascertain tabled before this House the 14 September 99 , Authorize some carriers Threat unambiguous and some persons to negotiate and to conclude any agreement naively , presented now his report final , who is annex? to the present report .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
read BACON
( the text of the report found in Printed to the Journals of the Senate of today huip. 258 . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when taken - we this report ?
the Senator Bacon :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 97 ( 3 ) of the Rules , I move that the report be recorded to the Order of the day for study to the next sitting of the Senate .
( on the motion of the Senator Bacon , the study of the report is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
the Act of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
report of the Committee
the hon. Peter A . Stollery , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign , presented the report following :
the Thursday 9 December 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign has the honour of present his
fifth REPORT
your Committee , referred has been obedience the Chapter of bill C - 4 , Act Authorize implementation in implement of the Agreement concluded between the government of the Canada , the governments of States members of the Agency spatiale European , the government of the Japan , the government of the Federation of Russia and the government of the States - United of America on the cooperation Current to the Station spatiale international civil and Dolly of the changes related to of other laws , has , pursuant to the Order of referred of the Wednesday 1 December 99 , examined obedience bill of bill and in fact now report without amendment .
respectfully submitted ,
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a third time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Stollery , the third Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting of the Senate . )
bill of bill of 99 on the implementation in Bill of conventions tax
report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign
the hon. Peter A . Stollery , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign , presented the report following :
the Thursday 9 December 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign has the honour of present his
SIXI?ME REPORT
your Committee , referred has been obedience the Chapter of bill S - 3 , Act rigour in implement a agreed , of the conventions and of the protocoles conclude between the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzb?kistan , the Syria , the Japan and the Luxembourg , in view of avoid the duplicates Socialist and of prevent the evasion tax in Equity of taxes on the income , has , pursuant to the Order of referred of the Wednesday 24 November 99 , examined obedience bill of bill and in fact now report without amendment .
respectfully submitted ,
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a third time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Stollery , the third Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting of the Senate . )
Economy Economy , Budgets and Administration
Presented of the second report of the Committee
the hon. Bill Rompkey , chairman of the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration presented the report following :
the Thursday 9 December 99
the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration has the honour of table his
second REPORT
your Committee welcomes currently to a study of the situation budget of the committees of the Senate .
your Committee recommends therefore that , notwithstanding the appended divesting the funding of the committees of the Senate , for all budget of Committee relatif to the year financial 99 - 2000 , presented to the Committee of the Economy Economy and approved by extend - side , your Committee not be authorized to covering of here the 10 February 2000 that 6 / 12 of the funds accorded .
the two exception to this recommendation are : i ) the budget submitted by the Comit?s of the transport and Communications regarding their study of the ascertain pursuant to the subsection 47 ( 5 ) of the Act on the transport to the Canada , to the amount of 19 900 $ ; and ii ) the budget submitted by the Committee of the Peoples aboriginal regarding their study on the self government aboriginal , to the amount of 14 750 $ .
respectfully submitted ,
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when this report will he took in consideration ?
( on the motion of the Senator Rompkey , the report is recorded to the Order of the day of the next sitting of the Senate . )
review of the regulatory
Presented of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing
the hon. line Hervieux - Hervieux :
honourable senators , I have the honour of present the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing of review of the regulatory Authorize on his Order of referred Standing ( quorum ) and the Estimates preclude to the during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report found to the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when taken - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Hervieux - Hervieux , the study of the report is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
Access and right of visit of the children
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Special
the hon. Landon Pearson :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of present the Prime report of the Committee Joint Special on the Access and the right of visit of the children , who treating of the Estimates encourues during the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
Affairs foreign
notice of motion designed to Authorize the Committee to until the date of Presented of the report final of the study Current to the amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
the hon. Peter A . Stollery :
honourable senators , I give notice that , Monday the 13 December 99 , I move :
that by derogation to the levels adopted by the Senate the Thursday 14 October 99 and the Wednesday 17 November 99 , the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign , authorized to examine for in do report the ramifications for the Canada : 1 ) of the amendment embraced to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North ( NATO ) and to the role of the Canada in the NATO since the disbanding of the alliance of Warsaw , of the end of the War Cold and of the entry recent in the NATO of the Hungarian , of the Poland and of the Republic tch?que ; and 2 ) of the keeping of the peace , particularly the ability of the Canada of there participate under the auspices of not important what body international whose the Canada fact part , be authorized to present his report final to the more later the 10 March 2000 ;
that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the Electronic of the results of his study contained in his report final , and this until to the 31 March 2000 ;
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices usual , to table his report deposited of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be reputation have been tabled to the Senate .
the Ontario
the Act on the restructuring regional - Conformity refusal of the government spend of adopt the recommendation designed to do of Ottawa a city bilingual - Notice of inquiry
the hon. Marie - P .
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Monday 13 December 99 , I call the attention of the Senate on the decision of the government of the Ontario of not not adopt a recommendation designed to do of Ottawa a city bilingual after his restructuring proposed .
the Senate
notice of motion confirmant the procedure of Assent Royal
leave having been granted of return to the Notice of motion :
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , pursuant to the sections 56 ( 1 ) and 58 ( 1 ) i ) of the Rules , I give notice by the presented that tomorrow , I move :
that the Senate of the Canada states the procedure of Assent Royal to the Senate , such that she is submitted by the authorities in procedure Parliamentary Norman Wilding and Philip Laundy : to Position ceremony pratiqu?e to the Canada is similar who seems if apparenter the more to the drafted to .
that the Senate upholds the right sovereign of Majesty Majesty , such that he is statement in the Act constitutional of 1867 , and who him authority the prerogative of deal the procedures parliamentarians and the bills of bill studied , developed to the Senators or adopted in the two Houses of the Parliament ;
that the Senate , in as that House where Majesty Majesty authority the Assent Royal , states his right constitutional ancestral as House of the Parliament where convergent the business of the three branches of the Parliament seize together in as that Parliament of the Canada ;
that the Senate states the right of the Parliament , the to lex parliamenti to , the bill ancestrale who limit that the consent Alaska is required for the study by the Parliament of all bill of bill or any procedure Parliamentary who Can the prerogative of Majesty Majesty ;
that the Senate states that the procedure Parliamentary to follow by a member for obtain the consent Alaska is of table to this effect a motion Authorize directed to Majesty Majesty , who if topic of the other forms of request of consent Alaska experienced have access the Prime Minister or the ministers in the fiscal of their responsibilities seems ;
that the Senate states the obligation of obtain the consent of Majesty Majesty before that be examined a bill of bill who affectera the prerogative Royal , to the example of the consent Alaska who has been given by the Queen Elizabeth II to the Royal Assent Bill of 1967 , who has been realized to the House of the Lords of the Kingdom - U by the Grand Chancellor Gardiner to the step of the second Reading of the bill of bill , the 2 March 1967 :
to your Seigneuries , I am responsible by Majesty Majesty the Queen of inform the House that Majesty Majesty , having been interviews of the subject of the bill of bill , hear to put his prerogative and his interest , in the legislation where they are Millenium by the bill of bill , to the clause of the Parliament to the purposes of the bill of bill . to
and who has been sir few weeks more later , the 17 April 1967 , to the House of the Commons of the Kingdom - U by the prosecutor General shore Elwyn Jones :
to I am responsible by the Queen of inform the House that Majesty Majesty , having been interviews of the subject of the bill of bill , hear to put his prerogative and his interest , in the legislation where they are Millenium by the bill of bill , to the clause of the Parliament to the purposes of the bill of bill .
I have the honour of propose that the bill of bill be now read a second time . to
PERIOD PERIOD question
the transport
the Divestiture of wharves public - Position divestiture of the pier of the Island Thetis to the bunch Indian of the Island Kuper
the hon. Pat Carney :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate , to who I have given notice .
the 18 October , I have wrote to the Minister of the Transport for me rise against the decision of his Department of CPAs a pier public of the Island Thetis , on the Coast of the British - British , to the collective aboriginal next of the Island Kuper , who diminish his own pier .
this decision has engagement a subject concern home the Island of Thetis , since the pier is their only average of access by sea .
the policy of the Department of the Transport intended to ali?ner the wharves public to the communities in expelling they if find .
you me has confirmed that this policy is always in force .
the Leader of the government of the Senate could - he me help to know if the government federal committed CPAs of the wharves public of a Island to a bunch aboriginal of a other Island , before that any claims territorial aboriginal not be resolved in this region ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank her the Senator of me have given notice of this question today today .
I hoping also that she me help in this who respect the prononciation of the behalf of the bunch Indian .
the Senator Carney :
welcome , honourable senators .
he You as P?n?lope .
he if is of Penelakut .
the Senator Boudreau :
I thank still a time the Senator .
of after the information that I have glan?s , the bunch has concern in May of the interest others the book whose talking the Senator and of the discussions have been amorc?es between the bunch and the Department of the Transport .
by the following , of the r?sidants have said that they if opposed to this approach , in this sense that they wanted to all the least express their point of view .
I believe know that , to the following of these interventions , a meeting is currently portion between the bunch and the r?sidants of the Island and , by seaway of consequential , the negotiations with the bunch of Penelakut not are not completed .
hope that these discussions between the r?sidants and the bunch enable of solve the question .
the Senator Carney :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate could - he me help to obtain a response to my letter of the 18 October to the Minister ?
if the Department of the Transport has amended the policy - a amendment that he not has never announced - , she isolera of small communities and paralysera the activity economic , because each Island not diminish that a pier .
if the Department recognize the control of the pier of a Island to a other Island , the activity economic of the first Island if in find paralys?e .
he me would useful that the Leader of the government request to the Minister of the Transport of answer to my letter of the 18 October .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I not see not of disadvantage to communicate with the Minister for ask that the you changing to the letter of the hon. Senator .
the Defence national
the problems m?caniques of the frigates of aliens
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I like ask a question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
four frigates Canadian of aliens have suffering of the pannes of g?n?rateur .
he there has approximately four or five years , we have had a avalanche of problems similar and have spent of the are huge for in discover the because and commissioned the upkeep necessary .
that provides the government for the four frigates who are today today outside service ?
while that I have the speak , have - we of the appearance according expelling of other frigates usher of have the same problems and , the case afforded , where if find the port of efficiently of these frigates , on the Coast is , on the Coast west , or the two ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have of the information regarding only the four frigates of aliens whose the Senator has spoke .
the problems m?caniques of these frigates are limited to the g?n?rateurs 2004 and not not to the citizenry of propulsion .
however , a inquiry technical exhaustive is in during .
of the provisions to short and to long term are currently implemented in implement .
he is to hope that the pannes of this kind not if reproduiront more , because the equipment and the frigates working well .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , I have my doubts there - above .
we have been the target of many criticism of the share of our allies to the abroad to comments of the ability of the frigates who not can soir to full memories in reason even of this problem .
we know also that these frigates working very well , except that he their lack a something who represents 40 per of their ability , to know a helicopter assigned Motor and reliable .
to the seen of these two great problems , he is difficult of say , in bearing his seriously , that the frigates working well .
the Alternative of the fleet of helicopters Sea King - Conformity time of the announcement
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , the Minister can - he we say if , before our return in February , he there will a announcement on the acquisition of helicopters bidding ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not can do today today no statement on the time where the acquisition of these aircraft will announced .
he if is of a priority of all Prime rank for the Minister of the Defence national , therefore that for of many senators and members .
we hope all that this announcement able if do in a poised future .
the Senator Forrestall :
we forward the poised future since now 1 792 days , and we not have not ran of expect .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , if the hon. Senator Forrestall means take the speak , we going the listen .
the Senator Forrestall :
the s?anteur Boudreau :
the Senator Graham :
hear !
the Senator Boudreau :
for answer to the question , the forces Armed have launched , to the during of the period whose he talking , a sure number of new programs important .
in appeals the new helicopters bidding , we have fact of the progress in this who respect of other programs , there including the helicopters of research and of search , the under - submarines and the improvement of the Allowance of living and of the conditions of life of the military them - same .
I understand the forward of the Senator to the regard of the program of acquisition of the helicopters bidding , but I have good hope that his efforts diligents will circumstance in a very poised future .
the Affairs Social , the Science and the Technology
the bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and of the documents electronic - Conformity Opposition of the government albertain
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology .
by following of the Exchange who has had held here , yesterday , to comments of the letter that the government albertain has submitted , the 7 December , to the chairman of the Committee , the government albertain me has informed today today that he not had not been guest to appear before the Committee to the about of the bill of bill C - 6 .
in any justice for the chairman of the Committee , I must say that I believe that the government albertain not has not asked to appear , but has only sent a letter .
he if is probably more here of a lack of communication that of bad showing .
however , the concerns albertaines regarding the meddling in of the areas of jurisdiction provincial remain .
when the chairman of the Committee takes the speak , today today , to the Senate , on the bill of bill C - 6 , respond he to the concerns that the government albertain outlining in his letter ?
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I Albertan to the question of the Senator Roche in showing two comments .
all of first , as I the have explained yesterday , I thought that the government of the Alberta had been guest to appear before the Committee , even if I have well took care of say - and I just of read the Hansard - that I finish check that deposited of the clerk of the Committee .
in fact , the government of the Alberta , contrary to extend of the Ontario , not has not asked to appear before the Committee .
he we has submitted a memory - and we in have received a other he there has two days - but he not has not asked to appear .
the Committee has can - be fact a mistake in not invitant not the representatives of the province to appear , but they number certainly been the welcome as witnesses if they had asked to appear .
of elsewhere , all the committees whose I have chaired the business have always vacancy a good reaction to the representatives of the governments provincial .
the other problem , this is extend who is of Order constitutional .
I not the issues not in my comments today today .
I will maintain this that I have said yesterday , this is - to - say that the members of the Committee have heard the evidence of experts who the have convinced that the bill of bill is consistent to the Constitution .
we not have therefore not spoken the question in our report , because that we believe that the bill of bill is consistent to the Constitution and that the evidence introduced to the Committee abound strongly in the even sense .
the environment
the announcement by the Alberta of his intention of Authorize the treatment of wastes dangerous imported to the centre of treatment of Swan Hills - Position Position of the government
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , the government of the Alberta has announced a amendment of his policy who has of the impact on the centre of treatment of Swan Hills .
this amendment allows to the centre of treatment of Swan Hills of import and of deal of the wastes bruts , there including of the wastes and of other contaminants , that , without that a assessment environmental be necessary .
honourable senators , the business who manages the centre of treatment of the wastes not has not a file without tache .
she has already been to the origin of fuites and of explosions and she has been appropriately found of pollution .
she not has not pointed of important rejets of dioxine and of furane who if are products he there has several years - rejets who have caused of the problems of health to the persons alive in endorse and who have tainted the poissons and the wildlife .
the business has been condamn?e to a fined of 625 100,000 $ for this offence .
the States - United have banned the importation of wastes products to the abroad .
course , this change of policy of the government of the Alberta has of the impact who not if limit not to the Alberta since the wastes in question can be routed in Alberta by of other provinces , of other ports or there be materials in truck , this who highlights in because the security and the health of the Canadians who live the long of these Means of routing .
after this announcement , the government of the Canada bad - he the need of amend his Position on the importation of wastes , of way general ?
the Leader of the government can - he ask to the Minister of the Environment if she has asked the held of a assessment environmental federal ?
she can the do because that not respect not only the province of the Alberta .
course , the province she - even not provides not of do a such assessment .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the decision Current to the treatment of wastes dangerous to the facilities of Swan Hills is currently to the study by the government of the Alberta .
the decision Current to the importation of Contents dangerous to the Canada must certainly be consistent to the standards Canadian in Equity of export and of importation of wastes dangerous , but she is when even of the resort of the province of the Alberta .
in fact , of other provinces and territories importent currently of the wastes of other country .
I know what is , specifically , the Position of the Minister of the Environment to the regard of the assessment environmental whose talking the Senator Spivak .
I attention therefore his question to the Minister , who there respond the week next .
the Senator Spivak :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate has said that the importation of wastes dangerous is of the resort of the provinces and that the transportation of wastes dangerous the is also .
I not am not some of have well including the response of the Leader .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the regulatory of the export and of the importation of the wastes dangerous are a field of responsibility and of jurisdiction federal .
these provisions will colleague in case of importation .
the amendment of the licensing of exploitation of the facilities in because for that they carry deal of the wastes filter of a other country is of the resort of the province , to my knowledge .
the Senator Spivak :
honourable senators , the transportation Interprovincial is subject to the regulatory of the export and of the importation .
this is the transportation Interprovincial of wastes who me interest .
the Leader states he that this not is not a responsibility provincial , but a responsibility federal ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , for power import or flair pareils wastes , the facilities in because must if conform to the requirements ensuing by the regulatory federal on the wastes dangerous .
this regulatory includes of the provisions Impediment to the health and to the security for the treatment of these wastes .
the treatment to the within of the facility she - even is authorized by the licences of exploitation that him has authorised the province .
a sure number of provinces have , on their territory , of the facilities who importent of the wastes dangerous .
the Senator Spivak :
honourable senators , the government of the Canada not lead - he not that we not devenions the Tabled of wastes dangerous of the world around ?
he if is of products chemical who concepts of the dioxines and of the furanes .
as in witnessing the laws that we have adopted recently , we seek to ban these marine and not to the import .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , he not fact not of doubt that the government of the Canada if inqui?terait of a scenario where we deviendrions the Tabled of wastes dangerous of the world around .
the opinion of the Minister to this time - side is that the regulatory existante we allow of resolve this situation of way expeditiously .
the agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis home the c?r?aliculteurs of the Western - R?ponse of the government
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate and door on the crisis that live the farmers .
the negotiations of the Organization World of the trade to Miami not have not given of the results positive .
the Minister of the Agriculture , Lyle Vanclief , has little of hope that the c?r?aliculteurs Canadian grab soon a reduction of the grants international .
I in am came to the even conclusion after me be spoken with of the representatives of the Europe , of the States - United and of other country .
the Committee Standing of the House of the Commons has held of the hearings in the Western .
I have attended to the hearings fairest to Estevan and to Regina .
in fact , the Minister of the Agriculture of the Saskatchewan me has asked of the help to present a presentation to the Committee .
the farmers , who are in a situation very precarious , looking , of way very ?motive , if he there has someone a who the listening .
I know that the Committee of the House of the Commons listening , and very carefully .
I was proud of the members members of this Committee because that they have listened and seem have including .
the Leader believes - he , in as that member of the cabinet , that the cabinet listening the farmers and door a kicking careful to their calls to the assistance then that they are in full crisis ?
you has announced in all the Canada Mr. Milne , a member of the House of the Commons , going organizing a event for help the farmers , to Toronto .
he is impossible that the people not understand not the crisis in the sector agricultural .
the cabinet is - he to the listening ?
the Minister is - he prepared to convey the message filter of this corner - side ?
of the speech on this about have been plebiscite by of the senators least of his side and they have been all also vigorous that those of this side - side .
is - this that someone a listening ?
the Senator Ghitter :
not , they not begrudging not .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have already fact share to the Minister of the Agriculture of the concerns address in the framework of our debate here , who been launched by the hon. Senator Gustafson .
you will seriously hold account of the work of the Committee of the House of the Commons .
as the hon. Senator the has said , the members of the Committee not have not physically their efforts and all report fully of their work will took , this is obvious , very to the seriously by the Minister and by his colleagues of the cabinet .
you can hope that this report will presented in a deadline reasonable .
the Senator Gustafson :
honourable senators , I have in labour a release of press careful that the program of fight against the crisis agricultural is a failure full and that the Ontario and the Saskatchewan if in gain .
we not are that to few days of the next millennium , of the next generation , of the next century .
we differ speak of the crisis and we in discussing since a year and half .
yet , you not has still presented no legislation who works .
I not speak never highlight enough the serious of the situation .
he is important that the Prime Minister , the Minister of the Agriculture and the cabinet begrudging .
I can say without fear of me wrong that the Senate has listened .
I believe that the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry has certainly answered of a way constructive .
he if is now of know if the government will answer .
this is this who important the more .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the hon. Senator fact referring to two provinces who have said be insatisfaites of the programs current of protection of the income agricultural , but for of the grounds well different .
the government spend believer that the program not was not enough generous for his farmers and you can in d?duire that he jugeait that a too great part of the appropriation had been Millenium elsewhere .
the ministers federal and provincial of the Agriculture come all fair of hold a meeting to Toronto .
this question was to the Order of the day and , to my notice , this is of there that come some of the statements .
the Minister has agreed that the process should if continue and not not take end in even time that the conference .
according me , the Committee of the agriculture of the Commons could contributing of way positive and substantial to the discussion that together the government federal and the provinces .
Questions delayed to of the questions Oral
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have of the Questions to the questions raised to the Senate the 24 November 99 by the senators Tkachuk and Stratton regarding the cost of the program of registration of the weapons to gun and to a question raised to the Senate the 25 November 99 by the Senator Forrestall to the about of the Alternative of the canoeing of helicopters Sea King and of his request of a copy of the statement of the needs .
the Justice
the cost of the program of registration of the weapons to gun - Position responsibility of the Minister
( response to the questions raised by the s?nateursDavid Tkachuk and Terry Stratton the 24 November 99 . )
the figure of 85 million of $ not is not the only estimate made by the Minister Rock .
this figure is in fact committee of the information that the Minister Rock has introduced to a Committee of the House of the Commons in April 1995 .
the documents in question felt the cost of the control of the weapons to gun for 5 years to 184 million of $ .
Les85 million of $ were necessary for put the system in place .
the rest covers the use of the former system ( C - 17 ) and the exploitation of the new system .
in a bill agreed by the Parliament in 1994 , of new components have been ajout?es such that the notice forwarded to the earnings and a audit tough of the history of the claimants of licences .
after that the bill report been agreed , but before that the system gave been machinery and developed in Bill , the provinces of the Alberta , of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba therefore that the Territories of the North - Western and the Yukon have announced that they not apply not the program in their Administration .
all these events have fact grimper the costs of facility and of implementation in Bill of the system .
the Minister of the Justice states since 1998 that the costs of facility and of implementation in Bill of the system who altering be of 85 million of $ , are tenure ?120 million of $ .
with the implementation in Bill of the new syst?mele 1 December 1998 , our obligations Impediment to the former system have widely decreased , all as the costs of development and of implementation in Bill .
finally , we feel that the costs means of Administration related to the Act on the weapons to gun should be comparable to those of other systems of Administration national such that the Board of the passeports or the Board of the ownership independent of the Canada .
we in are currently to the past steps of the negotiations with the provinces to the about of the Mod?le of benefits of services who govern the Payments paid to the authorities by the government federal to the payments of the costs administrative .
the fact that we news had of the problems with the implementation in Bill is of the field public .
we have asked to a home of expert - advice intrigued of do a study for we help to determine the reasons of our difficulties of enforcement and of the solutions possible .
she has presented in June last a report who knowing state of problems related to the great number of mistakes in the requests sent for be treated by the system , to the ability of the system and to of the problems of productivity who stem of our practices administrative .
the report keenly also that the problems met to the step of the implementation in Bill were normal for a business of this dispute .
we have machinery a plan of action for answer to these difficulties .
the funds accorded for the enforcement of the program stem of the Approbation effective of the bills ( AEP ) of the Council of the Treasury , pursuant to his policy on the great bills of the state .
to each fiscal , between 1995 - 1996 and 1998 - 99 , the program has used the envelope portion by the AEP .
the resolution of the problems related to implementation in place of the program described side - above increase of many the needs relating to the Administration of the program to the during of the fiscal 99 - 2000 .
the Minister of the Justice and the Centre Canadian of the weapons to gun wish apply the program with success without overtake the limits approved by the Council of the Treasury .
of the funds modified not can be octroy?s to the program without the consent of the Council .
all the parties wish that the program be ex?cut? of manner effective in despite of these constraint .
the Defence national
the Alternative of the canoeing of helicopters Sea King - Position request of copy of the statement of the needs
( response to a question raised by the Senator J . Michael Forrestall the 25 November 99 )
as the Minister the has mentioned to several occasions , the aircraft Sea King must be replaced .
in fact , the Minister has confirmed that the Chapter of the helicopters marine is his first priority in Equity of equipment and that a strategy of acquisition was in during of development .
the statement of the needs not will not tabled to this time - side in this House .
as the Minister the has indicated lines , in more of the statement of the needs , several questions must be examined and of other departments consulted .
the Government will a announcement when these questions will r?solues .
visitor of Gallery
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , before of move to the Order of the day , I like draw your attention on the presence of a visitor of Gallery in our galleries .
he if is Mr. Blair Wappel , who is Leader and advisor of the nation crie Enoch .
to the behalf of all the senators , I you wish the welcome to the Senate .
Order OF orders
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
third Reading
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Kirby , seconded by the hon. Senator Bryden , seconded to the third Reading of the bill of bill C - 6 , Act designed to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of means electronic for communicate or registering of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the Instruments regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws , such that amended ;
and on the motion of amendment of the hon. Senator Murray , C , seconded by the hon. Senator Doody , that the bill of bill not be not now read a third time , but that he be amended , to the section 7 , to the page 7 :
has ) by deleting of the lines 19 to 23 ;
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I like deal of the amendment to the bill of bill proposed yesterday by the Senator Murray in his very plaisant presentation .
his roots NDP - ?cossaises of the Cape - Cape are well evident to each time that he takes the speak to the Senate .
I not have plans the intention of ?galer his ability oratoire and I me outline therefore of comment the extension of his comments .
this is many more easy .
he has asked why our right to the protection of the information personal should if ?teindre20 years after our death .
as he the has underlined yesterday , that step a source of concerns for good number of people , particularly of the figures public as him .
I known the Senator Murray since long and I understand that he can be concern to this about .
when this question has been raised to the Committee , the members Liberal of the Committee were convinced that the Committee limited mistake if he adoptait this amendment .
we estimions that this would a mistake met given that we had heard relatively little of testimony to this about .
that contrast with the amendment relatif to the sector of the health that we have adopted Tuesday to the step of the report .
we have heard a great number of witnesses express their opinion to comments of this amendment .
we have in effect heard a broad range of witnesses of many p.m. during .
as I the have said yesterday , in Equity of health , the Committee was of notice unanimous that the amendment party be adopted .
we are therefore delighted that the Senate the gave adopted yesterday .
the question that the Senator Murray has raised yesterday dealt on the presence , in the bill of bill C - 6 , of a clause who has for effect of remove , 20 years after the Late of a human , the protection of the information personal assured by the bill of bill .
during of the few evidence that we have heard on the about , you we has said that a rule similar of 20 years there in of other laws , whose the Act on the protection of the information personal and the Act on the Archives national of the Canada .
we have also heard that this not is not as if , in under of the bill of bill , you respond automatically to all the requests of information regarding a human 20 years after his Late .
as the door - speak of Industry Canada the have fact pointed in their testimony before the Committee , the bill of bill not highlights not completely end to the right to the respect of the life privacy of a human 20 years after his Late .
he allows the communication of information only to the purposes for expelling the data have been resulting original , and only to the purposes for expelling the human would had to encouraging to this that you in convey the raising for begin .
we have also heard a expert in Equity of respect of the life privacy , Mr. Ian Lawson , who has supported a argument that or the Senator Murray or me - even not had heard before , to know that he there a principle legal transpired that you not can do apply the rights of a human a time that she is died .
the reaching Mr. Lawson was interesting .
he the suggested on the argument transpired that you not can give his consent a time that you is honour .
that seemed Establishing a problem practice except , as the Senator Murray and me the him have fact pointed , that this is to this time - there that between in stake the problem of the heirs and of the members of the family .
or the Senator Murray or me not have awarded many of negative to the testimony Mr. Lawson .
a other witness expert on the protection of the information personal , Valerie Steeves , has fact a observation very interesting .
well that she gave appeared on this bill of bill before the House of the Commons and that she admired before we , and well that she ruined since long in this bill of bill , until to this that the Senator Murray addressed the question with she the week last , this question not him was never came to the spirit .
you not the had never interrog?e to this about .
the question not had never been raised by the persons experienced she has case .
this not is therefore not , honourable senators , a question whose the witnesses who have appeared before the Committee have knowledge or to which they had thought .
this is a clause who if find in of other laws , whose the Act on the protection of the information personal .
honourable senators , he has seemed to the majority of the members of the Committee , whose me - even , that , conjunction to the work whose I have spoke yesterday , regarding the need that the government entreprenne a strong review of the Act on the protection of the information personal order of if conform of manner effective to the provisions that imposes the bill of bill C - 6 to the sector private , a part of this study should clear include a review of the called rule of the 20 years and that that should be fact of way thorough and quickly .
we have esteemed that in amend simply the bill of bill C - 6 and in leaving such what the various other laws federal , you characterized a double legislation of protection between the sector private and the government , who has already been in part created by the differences between the bill of bill C - 6 and the Act on the protection of the information personal .
those of between we who if find of the side of the majority to the Committee have favourite resolve this question in a time .
in of other words , the changes concerning to the Act on the protection of the information personal and to the Act on the Archives national of the Canada should the be in even time .
honourable senators , this is the key note that I have to do to the Senator Murray .
I am of agreed with him on the question that he has raised and on his extension .
the majority of the members of the Committee , whose me - even , feelings that this is a question of calendar .
she should be occasion when we parlerons of the changes to the Act on the protection of the information personal who should telecom .
therefore , honourable senators , according me , this not is not the time of proceed to this amendment , even if the purpose of this amendment not me valid no problem .
this who me valid problem , this is the choice of the time .
I hope that we undergo of new the question when , presumably , the Act on the protection of the information personal hands before the Committee under the pressure of this last , to the during of the next months .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , if no other Senator not wish take the speak , the vote door on the motion of amendment proposed by the hon. Senator Murray .
that the honourable senators who are in favour of the motion of amendment " well say yes .
of the Senators :
yes .
his Hon. the Speaker :
that the honourable senators who are against " well say not .
of the Senators :
not .
his Hon. the Speaker :
to my notice , the not the yeas .
and two honourable senators if met surveys :
his Hon. the Speaker :
the whips me have informed that the you if was heard for that the stamp if convey hear pendant30 minutes .
the honourable senators are - they of agreed ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker :
( the motion of amendment , implementation to the Senators , is defeated . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill , read a third time , is adopted . )
speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Vodrey , seconded by the hon. Senator Furey , seconded to the Adopted of a Adresse to His Excellency the Gouverneure general in response to the speech that contemporaries has sir during of the openness of the second session of the 30 - sixth Parliament . - ( 7
e day of the resuming of the debate ) .
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , I have listened the speech of the Throne with attention .
I am farmer , as the were my father and my great - father , and as the are my grandchildren - children , who constitute the fifth generation of farmers in our family .
my great - father , who was came of Sweden in 1905 for if establish to the Canada as farmer , was very proud of be Canadian .
I must say , in preface of preamble , that we , the farmers , we are of the people proud .
gold , these last days , I have seen of the men pleurer , I the have substandard if unravelling , I the have heard say that he was d?moralisant of have to if complaining and to we explain their situation .
the women , by against , have many least of difficulty to speak frankly of the situation pushed in which if find their family .
I know that the honourable senators of in opposite have as me heard the farmers speak in Committee of their problems and of the serious of their situation .
I see that the hon. Senator Joyce Fairbairn , who nat the deputy - Speaker of the Committee of the agriculture , nodding of a sign of the head .
this morning , we have heard the testimony of the producers of Wheat unkind of the Alberta , who have presentation their problems .
I not rise no happy to do this intervention today today .
honourable senators , I declare that the government , the Senate and the House of the Commons , the Prime Minister of the Canada and the population Canadian not can ignore the serious crisis who fiasco the world agricultural because she step a problem national serious for the country all around .
she affects not only the Saskatchewan , the Manitoba and the Alberta , but also the together of the country .
the farmers if in graduate - they all if difficulty ?
not , says wish to be all to fact clear and honest to this about .
the producers of products dairy and of volaille , therefore that of other , if in graduate very well and we not want not their ?ter what that this be .
in as that producers of grain , we have need of their support .
the industry of the cattle if in fate very well .
the producers of grain suffering many to because of the low price of the products of basic .
the price not have never been also lower .
recently , I have persistent a considering double of type B of Wheat to the silo of Weyburn .
this not was not a good quality of grain .
he had gel? for because of ensemencement tardif should to the time humide .
this chargement of grain we has reported to the total 3600 $ gross .
the amount of the cheque was of 1 400 $ .
I him have said that he going receive a billing .
we differ full of stories of this kind .
the price of the grain has been very lower .
the price of the oats is still piece of 40 cents yesterday .
the situation not is not also bad in Saskatchewan , where the income average is to his point the more lower since 1933 .
these figures stem of the departments of the Agriculture .
we have a serious problem on the gave .
of the fact of the initiative of the government , not only the price of the products of basic has descended , but we know also of serious difficulties , including to the payments of the rates of transportation of the goods .
to numerous occasions , the farmers have indicated that the third of the income revenues of the sales of their grain recovered in fees of transportation of this grain toward the abroad , because we are enclav?s .
we have heard this morning the producers of Wheat unkind of the Alberta , capably have raised of important questions regarding the transportation of their grain .
I suppose that some of these changes if imposaient .
the elevator to grain of Macoum to been ras? to the bulldozer .
I me trouvais to Miami to this time - there and I am piece on my small - son .
he has wanted know why I had left do that .
the problem takes a dimension affective , because in the Prairies , the people have the usual of see a silo - elevator all the nine miles ; they doing part of the d?cor .
to the seen of all that , of the changes if imposaient .
I am of agreed .
however , these changes number could be drew very differently .
I not want not politicize the debate , and yet I must remind some of the programs developed in place by the government Conservative for protect the farmers .
he there has had the Plan of insurance - income gross , whose the benefits have been benefit for we .
this is the Senator Hays , if I not me read , who me has reiterated to numerous occasions in Committee that we should we atteler to the r?actualisation of these programs of protection of the income .
our program not was not perfect , but we must we defray of programs similar to long term for go of the before .
we are can - be all to blame , in a some legislation .
we have had few good years to the during prompted we not we are not many souci?s of the problem and , well heard , the something the more important was of juguler the deficit of the then .
I believe that we recognize all that we were in considering of losing the control of the deficit .
however , some measures that we have neglected of take to the regard of the agriculture number licences of avoid of we passed in the situation where we are today today .
honourable senators , that me brings to the program ACRA .
the government has developed many of money in this program , but he not works not .
we have heard say to numerous occasions that he not operated not .
I can appoint of the farmers who have received of the money , but who not number not should in receive .
he must reform this program in depth .
I believe that he is obvious for all that this is necessary .
to my notice , a synthetic direct of capital would given of good results , and this is the opinion stated by of the farmers to Regina and to Estevan during of the meetings experienced I have attended .
that would could take the form of a payment to the acre .
to what point these needs are - they pressants ?
he there has a serious crisis and similar - side affects of the problems social .
some case are too tragic for be racont?s .
of the people are came explain their situation during of meetings and have stay in sanglots .
according some persons , until to 15 suicides would directly occurred to the crisis agricultural .
the farmers are of the people very proud .
his great - parents have gone the Russia with a only cow .
until to the age of 82 years , his great - mother has relates the cows .
she not has never left the unto forget that their first cow has saved the life of his two boys and their has licences of come to the Canada .
the government has of the decisions serious to take and I think that he will this that he agreeable .
I him getting confidence , account held of all this who has been said and of all this who is fact for awareness the media and the government to the situation .
the Committee Standing of the other place if is shown very approachable to the evidence that he has heard to this about .
the Minister of the Agriculture of the Saskatchewan me has asked of the help to do his presentation before the Committee Standing .
the members of the Committee have listened carefully .
they hand table a report who approaches well of the elements that I getting argue today today .
I hope that the response will positive for our farmers .
the problems social have of the impact not only on the families and the hailed agricultural , but also on the together of the community .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the time of the hon. Senator Gustafson is expired .
the hon. Senator request he the leave of continue ?
the Senator Gustafson :
yes .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , the leave is - she granted ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Gustafson :
I want speak briefly of the impact of this situation on the communities and of the effects of the measures positive that the government takes .
these people - there duplication of the employment .
they constrained in state the tracteurs , the trucks and the machinerie .
any the community considerable of their work .
if the you expenditure 1 $ in the sector agricultural , this amount if multiplie by seven , but this is there a all other question .
I not have not the time of address a about also important .
the contribution economic of the agriculture is the third in importance to the Canada .
the agriculture Canadian quoted of huge profits to the Treasury .
we not can we allow of let let this industry .
each Senator has the responsibility , not only to the level national , but also in the region that he represents , of ensure to this that the government adopt of the measures positive order of help our farmers to short and to long term .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , to the behalf of the Senator LeBreton , the debate is adjourned . )
bill of bill admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical
second Reading - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Carstairs , seconded by the hon. Senator pin , seconded to the second Reading of the bill of bill S - 2 , Act admissibility the taken of decisions Medical legitimate relatively to the treatment of survival and to the treatment of the pain . -
( the hon. Senator Lavoie - Lavoie ) .
the hon. Ione Christensen :
honourable senators , I rise the speak for support the bill of bill S - 2 , Act admissibility the taken of decisions Medical legitimate relatively to the treatment of survival and to the treatment of the pain .
since 15 years , I have had the honour of be the key soignante , of first , of my parents , then of a very old friend , a enseignant , who not had not of family and had need of care deplore .
to the time where these three persons have reached the point where they had need of care palliative and of pharmacare against the pain , I was the human of confidence before if ensure that their wishes were respected .
in the three case , we have had of the discussions depth on this that they souhaitaient in Equity of treatment of survival and of fight against the pain , then with their doctors for ensure to this that their wishes ensure enrolled in their file .
toward the end , when the fight against the pain , the food and the hydratation artificielles are clearly necessary , I have been called for reaffirm their wishes since they not were more in legislation of the do .
in two case , I had a mandate in good and properly form , but , for these three persons , I knew this that they wanted and I have could do meet their wishes .
that would - he came if I not had not been there ?
I have learned that the doctors and the staff infirmier h?sitaient to not not dispense of the care of treatment of survival .
they were in a zone grise , which fact exactly the subject of the bill of bill .
we have strongly need of lines guidelines national , of programs of education public and , particularly , of training professional in care palliative .
to the approach of the new millennium , a great form of our population will need of care similar , and we must be loans to fill this need .
I thank the Senator Carstairs and the other senators who have contributed to braquer the shimmering on this question .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , this section remain recorded to the behalf of the Senator Lavoie - Lavoie .
Library of the Parliament
Adopted of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing
the Senate proceeded to the study of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament ( mandate of the Committee ) , presented to the Senate the 8 December 99 . - ( Conformity hon. Senator Robichaud , C ( Conformity Acadie - graduated ) ) .
the hon. Louis J . Robichaud :
honourable senators , I move the Adopted of this report .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
languages official
Adopted of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing
the Senate proceeded to the study of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official ( quorum ) , presented to the Term 8 December 99 . - ( Conformity hon. Senator Losier - Losier ) .
the hon. Rose - Marie Losier - Losier :
honourable senators , I move the Adopted of this report .
the hon. Serge Joyal ( His Hon. the Speaker Acting ) :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
review of the policy Canadian antidrogues
motion Authorize the training of a Committee Senate Special - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the motion of the hon. Senator Nolin , seconded by the hon. Senator Cohen :
that a Committee Special of the Senate be formed order of reassess the laws and the political Canadian antidrogues , of consult substantially the population Canadian for determine the needs speak of the different regions of the country , more particularly there where the problems social related to the Control and to the use of drugs uniform are more overcoming , of develop of the proposals for according any information Current to the policy Canadian antidrogues and , finally , of produce of the recommendations for in arrive to the Adopted of a strategy antidrogues implementation to the point by and for the Canadians encouraging all the levels of government to work in closely cooperation to the reduction of the mischief related to the consumption of drugs uniform .
without that this who following gave for effect of happen his mandate , that the Committee be authorized to :
- review the approach agreed by the government federal for combat the consumption of drugs uniform to the Canada , his effectiveness as average of reduce the effects of the consumption of stup?fiants and the legislation in which his application is fair ;
- develop a policy national of reduction of the mischief order of relieve the impacts negative of the consumption of drugs uniform to the Canada and do of the recommendations on the way of apply this policy , including the possible of consider before all the use and the abuse of drugs as a problem socio - sanitaire ;
- study the models of reduction of the mischief adopted by of other country and determine , if he there would held , of the apply partially or contributor , to the Canada ;
- examine the role and the obligations international who describes to the Canada in under of the conventions of the Nations Nations on the stup?fiants , of the Declaration Universal of the rights of the man and of other treaties related order of determine if these treaties the embark to take of the measures other that the prosecutions criminal and the p?nalisation of the Offenders to the wide international ;
- urge the effects of the fibre on the health and study the question of know if the employment of political alternatives to the about of the use of the fibre conduirait to a increase of the use and of the abuse to short and to long term ;
- study the possible that the government logjam of the power of regulatory that him authority the Act on the contraventions as average Supplementary of apply a policy of reduction of the mischief as he is of use in of other juridictions ;
- study any other question Current to the policy Canadian antidrogues that the Committee Justice appropriate for accomplish his mandate .
that the Committee Special be composed of five senators and that the quorum be of three members ;
that the Committee gave the power of do appear of the persons and of produce of the documents , of hear of the witnesses , of do report of time to other and of do print to the day the day documents , Crosbie and evidence according the instructions of the Committee ;
that the Crosbie received and the evidence heard during of the review of the bill of bill C - 8 , Act Authorize on the regulatory of some drugs and of their aspirin therefore that of other marine , by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional during the second session of the 30 - fifth Parliament , ensure An to the Committee ;
that the Committee be authorized to Authorize , if he the Justice timely , the television , the authorize and the Electronic by the through of the media electronic of the radio or of a part of his deliberations and of the information that he holds ;
that the Committee be authorized to sit during the adjournments of the Senate in under of the subsection 95 ( 2 ) of the Rules of the Senate ; and
that the Committee presented his report final to the more later three years after the date of his creation . - (
the hon. Senator Kenny ) .
the hon. Colin Kenny :
honourable senators , I rise the speak today today for speak of the motion of the Senator Nolin designed to ably a Committee Senate Special for reassess the laws and the political Canadian antidrogues .
he is great time of review our strategies current of fight against the consumption of drugs .
honourable senators , he is obvious for we all that the attitude of the Canadians to the regard of the political antidrogues and of their results has changed .
the Canadians are of more in more many to recognize that the political current not limited not the results souhait?s .
of the are of money important are net in the application of the laws antidrogues , but the problems social and the problems of health related to the drug continue of ceased and taking even of the magnitude .
the creation of a Committee Special responsible of the broad mandate who is proposed would the average ideal of consult the public .
that help to define the needs own of the various regions .
of the legal and of the doctors experts commend a strategy antidrogue who du account of the aspects legal , of the problems of health and of the questions financial .
honourable senators , he if is of a question burning .
more of a year if is already past since that Diane Riley has presented , in November 1998 , his report on the drugs and the policy on the drugs to the Canada , report that she has prepared for the Senator Nolin .
the time is came of canvassing the opinions of the Canadians , of see what are their values and of take in account the costs and the benefits of the political existing .
the information on of the approaches and models different modern to the abroad help to choose the political to develop for the Canada .
the questions legal , the problems of health and the concerns financial who if collected to the consumption of stup?fiants if multiplient and earn constantly in grow .
as he if is of a question sensitive , the governments have too often trend to the ?luder .
this attitude not is not in the interest of the Canada and of his citizens .
the first recommendation of the report Riley means that he there gave a inquiry on the policy Canadian in Equity of drugs and on his relations with the right within and international , there including the standards Impediment to the rights of the human .
the inquiry must also bringing on the political and the programs of other country in the Equity .
since the Tabled of the report , he not if is fact no inquiry .
the Senator Nolin we has all realized service in we selected that the consumption of stup?fiants valid of important problems faced we must we interest .
he we must a information confident to the about of the consumption of drugs to the Canada .
as a Committee Special of the Senate would the power of questions of the witnesses , of require the production of documents and of receive of the Crosbie and of the evidence , his report final would a source reliable of information objectives .
a Committee Special could offer the point of view , the analysis , the reflection necessary for find of the solutions possible to the problems that pose the consumption of drugs and the political antidrogue to the Canada .
needless of say that the government if interest cleansing to the results of a study as similar - there , and this is for the Senate a excellent opportunity of play a role of Prime plan in this very important file .
honourable senators , I you urge to support the motion of the Senator Nolin Authorize creation of a Committee Special responsible of study the question of the use of drugs ill?gales to the Canada .
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . )
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
motion Requesting to the Committee of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology of scinder the bill of bill in two - Withdrawn of the section
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Murray , C , seconded by the hon. Senator Beaudoin ,
that he be given to the Committee Senate Standing referred will referred the bill of bill C - 6 the instructed next :
that he has the power of scinder the bill of bill C - 6 , Act designed to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of means electronic for communicate or registering of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the Instruments regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws , in two bills of bill , the Prime met set of the Partie 1 and of the Printed 1 with of the 1993 and a clause of entry in force and the second met set of the rest of the bill of bill and of the annexes 2 and 3 with of the 1993 ; that the deliberations on the second bill of bill can be delayed until after the study of the Prime ; that the a or the other of the bills of bill can do the subject of a report to the Senate managed after have been examined ; and that , regardless of the lightweight accustomed , the Senate give this instructed not important when after have been before of the bill of bill , even after that the Committee will began the study . - (
the hon. Senator Kirby ) .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I not see not how the section No. 22 can remain to the Paper .
he has been prepared of the bill of bill and a message has been advocates to the other place .
we not are not before of the bill of bill C - 6 .
he must the rayer of the Paper .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
of agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the honourable senators are - they of agreed for that this motion be withdrawn of the Paper ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the section is withdrawn . )
the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations
inquiry - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the inquiry of the hon. Senator Wilson , calling the attention of the Senate on the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations . - (
the hon. Senator Di Nino ) .
the hon. Consiglio Di Nino :
honourable senators , as this is tomorrow the Day of the rights of the man , I wish to participate to the debate on this inquiry .
this is with happy , in fact , that I involved to the debate on the inquiry of the Senator Wilson on the freedom religious in China .
I like advantage also of the opportunity for comment of the comments that has made the Senator Austin , as on this about that on the question closely of the situation of the rights of the human in China .
his hosts Chinese have should many the sustains .
I have been rather mystifi? , however , by his comments regarding the group witty Falun Gong , whose I speak a little more in a moment .
the Senator Wilson has said that his to partners church to , who are the churches determined , I suppose , rightly the Falun Gong as a organization foreign to the influence d?stabilisante and dangerous .
I not see not on what if based this deal rather hardie .
I not have certainly nothing seen who can me takes to a courtesy conclusion .
as not the know without doubt not the Senator Wilson , the Constitution Chinese guarantees the freedom of belief .
why therefore his partners church and , therefore , she - even , I suppose , taking - they the Falun Gong to part ?
is - this because this is a of the five religions official of the China ?
that me d?cevrait .
I chair believed that the Senator Wilson , account held of his importance to the within of his community religious and of his experience applaud , would more tol?rante .
in way , I have read this morning that he there would 30 million of Christian Chinese who continuously each day of be Farmers , fought or emprisonn?s by the authorities larger .
he seems that they not if education not in of the site of culte approved officially .
he would interesting of know if the Senator Wilson or his colleagues have asked the question to their hosts during their visit in China .
honourable senators , before that we interrompions our business for our break of been , the Senator Austin if in is took to me for some comments that I had made to the about of the respect of the rights of the human in China .
he said in big that I cherchais too the confrontational and that we should be more conciliants with the Chinese .
in of other words , we should close the eyes on some abuse committed there - lower .
he is obvious that I not then be of agreed with that .
this is a well fine picture , but he not is not totally true .
honourable senators , our relations with the China are Italiano on three major consistently .
he there has all of first the Immigration .
I have had my first contacts with the China and the Chinese to the end of the years 50 , then that I was a young banquier in the Headquarters Chinese of Toronto .
to the over of the years , I have touch of the contacts with various members of the community Chinese and I can say without hesitation that their presence has helped to promote the encouraged of our country .
the Canadians of origin Chinese Whelans a enormous contribution to the Canada .
they working durum and this are of the citizens honest and synergistically .
they ?largissent and enriched our culture .
the Canada is the great winner for this who is of the Immigration Chinese .
however , you not can not say , according me , that the even something if applies in the case of the second track of our relations with the China , the Affairs and the trade .
in the years preceding 1993 , these relations were relatively stable .
the trade commercial were to little almost ?quivalents .
if I not me read , they were of the Order augmented billion of $ by year of each side .
all that has changed when the government present is came to the power .
since 1993 , the taxpayers Canadian are forced of firms , to suddenly of million of $ , and you know the figure exactly , the attempts made Mr. tien and his colleagues of increase the presence of the Canada in China and our opportunities on the market Chinese .
the results are surviving , this is the least that you can say .
in fact , since this period , the value of the exports Canadian toward the China has falling regularly then that the value of the worth has more that doubled .
in fact , she has virtually tripl? , except mistake .
the third track of the reports that we involvement with the China respect the role that the Canada has traditionally played as injecting of the rights of the human .
to a then , honourable senators , the governments Canadian favorisaient of the values and of the fight who teamwork the envy of the world .
unfortunately , as we the know all , this not is not the case when he is question of the China .
now , we not are more that a other group of people of Affairs who dollar to obtain of the markets .
we not d?fendons absolutely more the idea that he should there have a link between the rights of the human and the trade .
the Prime Minister tien said that our country has a too small size for influer on the China .
Mr. . tien we said that he is a great friend of the leaders Chinese .
why not if commit - he not of this friendship ?
our best friends to the world are the citizens of the States - United of America .
our small size not we prevent not of the criticize .
we the do continually .
why not can - we not act of the even way to the place of the China ?
why aside this treatment Special to the government Chinese ?
why the government Chinese keeps - he as to gentlemen his Criminal to remain to the within of the boundaries of the country ?
honourable senators , the been last , few weeks after that the Senator Austin gave given to the House the insurance that the China had changed for the better , the government Chinese has appr?hend? more of 30 100,000 of his citizens .
since this time , he has continued the arrests .
for what crime ?
according the government Chinese and , I the suppose , according the partners church of the Senator Wilson , this is because that they adh?rent to the movement witty Falun Gong , whose I have spoke he there has few minutes .
in more of appr?hender all these persons , the government has ordered that more of 1.5 million of cassettes , of brochures and of other sections related to the movement ensure confisqu?s or spawning .
he there has even had of the autodaf?s of books .
honourable senators , he is someone little difficult of if imagine that he can there have of the autodaf?s of books to the enter of the third millennium .
of the books have been br?l?s during the Starr therefore that under the regime label .
the communistes Chinese seem now have added their behalf to this short but however occasional list , and the Senator Austin identifies that of progress .
honourable senators , in me unreliability on the question of the rights of the human , I not have mention the intention of diaboliser the Chinese .
I believe firmly that the Chinese , those who are IT , are also horrifi?s of see this who if proceeded in their country .
my comments improve therefore the government and not the people Chinese .
the Prime Minister said that we not have no influence .
why then his government continues he of Zion to the world around the importance of the rights of the human ?
this is the a of his objectives basic .
the rights of the human not doing - they not part of the policy foreign of the Canada ?
that seems obvious .
the note playing also a document entitled : to Conformity Canada in the world to .
according this document , the Canada can contribute a important cooperation to the security international in doing the promotion of the values Canadian , this who includes the respect of the rights of the human , of the democracy and of the rule of the right .
why not the do - we not in the case of the China ?
why not do - we not the promotion of our values in this case ?
he seems that the you not committed not speak of other something that of the meetings to senior level and to camera closed , of the symposiums multilateral , of the initiatives of cooperation and of the bills of dialogue .
if the government believes that the freedom of religion and the rights of the human are of the pillars of our policy foreign , he should the say to all the world without exception .
he should shown by his actions that he has the courage of his convictions .
why the Prime Minister not if honourably he not before the representatives of the world for criticize the occupation of the Tibet or the persecution religious of the Falun Gong in China ?
the constraint trade are - they if strong or the itself - saying links of friendship with the leaders Chinese if low ?
the hon. Senator Wilson we said that his partners church of China are of notice that the Falun Gong step a threat to the stability of the China .
this is strange .
the bouddhistes not are not a threat , the Catholic and the protestants not more , and he seems that or the each or the other not believe to the Proph?te or to those who followed the Aristotle of the tao?sme .
he not there has that the members of the Falun Gong .
honourable senators , Monday of this week , the chairman American , Mr. Clinton , contrary to his counterpart Canadian , has fact a statement to this about .
he has described the sentencing collective of the members of the Falun Gong as
... a example disturbing of a legislation government to the conflict of people who legalities test the limits of the freedom .
and he has added follows :
the targets of the government Chinese not are not of the dissidents political , and we know their practices and beliefs .
but the principle not in remains not least the even : freedom of conscience and freedom of association .
I specific that the comments Mr. Clinton lines in the even sense that the point of view expressed the months last by the two Houses of the Congress American .
in effect , in a resolution concurrente , the House of the representatives and the Senate have exhort? the China to stop of pers?cuter the movement Falun Gong .
the resolution knowing argue to fair payments that the ban of the secte Falun Gong seem the own Constitution of the China .
that is also contrary to the Covenant international relatif to the rights civilians and political and to the Declaration Universal of the rights of the man .
honourable senators , to the time where the Canadians are on the point of saluting the end of the Hanukkah and if prepares to the No , we should all reflect to the values fundamental that represent these traditions .
the Festival of the Lumi?res , the birth of the Christ and the other celebrations of the kind we recall that he there has of the values transcendantes that all the men shared and together .
these observe we recall that he there has in the world of the places where these values are rejected and the beings human who the professent , persecution .
the time is goals , I believe , for those of between we who go?tent the fruit of the freedom and of the democracy of prier for our similar who not have not this fortunate .
in our prayers , honourable senators , we should also ask that the government reprenne his spirit and convey of the Canada the great champion of the rights of the human across in the world .
( on the motion of the Senator Poy , the debate is adjourned . )
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
notice of motion Authorize Authorized to the Committee of the Finance national of study the Budgets of the Estimates - Motion of amendment - Stands of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Murray , C , seconded by the hon. Senator Beaudoin ,
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national be authorized to study , order of in do report , the Estimates set in the Estimates of the Estimates for the fiscal financial if ending the 31 March 2000 ; and
that the Committee presented his report to the more later 31 March 2000 ;
and on the motion of amendment of the hon. Senator Robichaud , C ( St. - Louis - of - Kent ) , seconded by the hon. Senator Hervieux - Hervieux , C , that the motion be amended by adding , after the words , to the Estimates of the Estimates for the fiscal financial if ending the 31 March 2000 to of this who following :
to to the exception of the appropriation 1 , 5 and 10 of the Fisheries and Oceans ;
that the Committee Senate Standing of the fisheries be authorized to study the Estimates set of the Fisheries and Oceans content in the Estimates of the Estimates for the fiscal if ending the 31 March 2000 ; and
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
in of other words , I have adjourned the debate to the behalf of the Senator Stollery , who is absent currently .
I request that this section to the Order of the day be now recorded to the behalf of the Senator Stollery .
( the debate is order . )
the Summit of the Francophonie
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate - Maintien of the section
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I request , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the subsection 27 ( 3 ) of the Rules , that this notice of inquiry rest to the Paper until to the break of No .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Hays :
I will provide a explanation , if the senators the wish .
honourable senators , this notice of inquiry dispara?tra of the Paper to the next sitting since he there found since 14 days .
I announcement to the honourable senators that I have the intention of propose that the Senate if adjourned to 16 p.m. Monday .
the Senator Gauthier like speak to this about Tuesday .
for that the notice of inquiry not be not ray? of the Paper before that the Senator gave the opportunity of speak , I request the leave of extend the deadline of sort that he there rest until to the break of No .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the Senator Hays if is now expressed on this inquiry .
we , of this side - side , not verrions not of objection to this that the notice of inquiry rest recorded to the behalf of the Senator Gauthier and to this that the account of days of sitting concise to a .
we are completely of agreed to this about and accept that the Senator Gauthier ruined to this about Tuesday next or not important what other day .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the honourable senators are - they of agreed for that the notice of inquiry No. 1 , recorded to the behalf of the Senator Gauthier , rest to the Paper ?
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , he is fair and correct of the share of the Senator Kinsella of interpret my comments as if I me was expressed on the inquiry .
in this case , as the Senator Kinsella the has explained , the account of days of sitting regarding the inquiry works to a for the next sitting .
that allows of achieve the purpose liked of a way more ?l?gante , can - be , that this that I had proposed .
that me craft satisfactory .
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , I difference the deal according which the Senator Hays , even the Senator Kinsella , if is expressed on the inquiry .
this is to the Senator who give notice of a inquiry that works the privilege of in speak in Prime .
the Senator Gauthier not if is not still sir on this about .
hold for prior that if a other human has spoke of this inquiry whose we not know nothing , that has for effect of bring to zero the number of days recorded to the Paper would create a dangerous precedent .
follows said , if we vote unanimous of bring this figure to zero , in despite of the fact that the Senator Gauthier not has not still fact his inquiry , this is a other case , and I accepterais that we tarred of the sort .
the Senator Kinsella :
I therein to the interpretation and to the board of the Senator Corbin .
I think that he has fully reason and I am all to fact of agreed with him .
my analysis was erron?e .
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I think that if we convenions that the inquiry No. 1 paraisse in the Paper of the next sitting as if this was the Prime day , all the world would happy .
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , suppose that a inquiry or a motion be placed to my behalf and that I not can not in speak the week next .
better - I contractual this precedent for ask that we return to the day a without debate ?
we must do very attention to the manner whose we appliquons this principle .
the Senator Gauthier has said that he 7.6 the speak Tuesday to the about of the inquiry .
he enough of subtly that he can do his inquiry Tuesday , to the held of create a precedent General , that he would for the other very trying of contractual .
jugeons rather each case to his deserves .
the Senator Hays :
if this is acceptable , I prierai my colleagues of give their agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators that the motion continues to be placed to the Paper to the behalf of the Senator Gauthier until to Tuesday ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the section is continued . )
the rights of the human and the conflict multiethniques
inquiry - adjournment of the debate
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) , having given notice the 6 December 99 :
- honourable senators , such is the about whose I want speak .
account held of the hour , I presenting a version abr?g?e of my comments .
if I want speak today today of this question , this is that the Senator Andreychuk has fact know , in the statement that she has introduced to the beginning of the presented sitting , that tomorrow , the 10 December , is the Day international of the rights of the man .
the Senator Di Nino has also brought that to our attention when he has took the speak all to the hour .
the Day international of the rights of the man , the 10 December , is a day important for the community international .
as the Canadians overwhelmingly enormous of importance to the rights of the human , he agreeable , I believe , that we , of the House high of the Parliament , pasts all particularly of the Declaration Universal of the rights of the man .
he is also important that we rappelions that a distinguished Canadian has participated to the drafting of the Declaration Universal of the rights of the man who has been proclam?ele 10 December 1948 by the Assembly general of the Nations Nations .
this fall , to the UN , in a report that he has presented to the Council of security , whose the Canada is currently a member permutant , the present Secretary General , Kofi Annan , has spoke of the protection of the civilians to the during of the conflict armed .
the Secretary General has said that , in despite of the Adopted , to the during ratio past years , of various conventions on the rights international , humanitarian and human , he not if proceeded to little almost not a day without that of the civilians innocent ensure confiscation , brutalis?s , tortur?s and killed in of the conflict armed .
that he if abhorrent of mutilations to the Sierra Leone , of genocide to the catalogued , of purification ethnic in the Balkans or of disparitions in America Latin , the parties to of the conflict Farmers onto these conventions on the rights human .
honourable senators , the end of the War Cold has can - be journey the world of the threat of a War nuclear PQ .
in even time , however , since the dropping of the Dickie of Berlin , more of 4 million of persons have been driving in of the conflict violent and he rest of the million of refugees and of persons displaced in the world around .
the events Own in the Balkans and elsewhere in this only decade indicate to what point he is pressing of if attack to the complexit?s of the conflict multiethniques modern .
in even time , we are horrifi?s by the terrible events who are Own to the catalogued in 1994 .
we recognize that these issues are extremely complex .
as the Secretary General the has also fact pointed , we persistent that the keeping of the peace and of the security international require a intervention to all the steps of a conflict or of a conflict requires , order of the avoid , of in minimize the consequences and of there put a term a time that he has began , or in view of enable the keeping of the peace and the contribution of the peace , there including the reconciliation and the Administration of the justice , a time the conflict concluded .
the Canada involved drew to these interventions international , and we are proud that our country and the Canadians carry contribute of the contributions of this kind .
all these actions are important .
he must back in question the oldest ideas , there including the concept of rule of the sovereignty of the States and of the integrity territorial .
as the has supported , in September , the Secretary General Annan :
of the concept of sovereignty strictly traditional not can more pay justice to the aspirations of all the Peoples of access to their freedoms fundamental ...
of the abuses massives and syst?matiques of the rights of the human , where that they carry if produce , not should not be tol?r?es .
honourable senators , the community international must recognize that , with the end of the War Cold , the security of the persons , this who includes their rights human , becomes more important that the security of the States .
today today , you not suppose more that the right international confer a more great priority to the sovereignty of the States and to the integrity territorial that to the rights of the human or to the autod?termination .
honourable senators , I believe that do of the protection of the rights of the human the Prime principle of the relations international help greatly to avoid of the conflict multiethniques and to promote a democracy and a peace best .
we must go beyond - beyond of the principle of the sovereignty of the States , who has domin? the relations international until to this day .
we must return to the principles of the Declaration Universal of the rights of the man and to those of the conventions and of the treaties international on the rights of the human who have been ?labor?s to the following of the Declaration Universal and who if in analysis .
honourable senators , unfortunately , force we is of recognize that the country have often , to the during of the decades , avoidability to the commitments enrolled in these instruments relating to the rights of the human .
the senior - Commissioner of the Nations Nations to the rights of the man , Mary Packwood , former chairman of the Ireland , has admitted in a presentation that she has fact the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the Nations Nations the year last that :
when you fact the account of 50 years of implementation in place of instruments relating to the rights of the man and of 30 years of programs of development of several billion of $ and of speech of senior level , the results not are hardly biodegradable ...
this is a such failure that we should have shame .
as the senior - Commissioner to the Nations Nations of the rights of the man , Ms Packwood , has added :
in this who respect the institution of standards , the work is fact in great part .
the standards international in this who respect the rights of the man are in place .
the task for we all ... is of the apply .
( on the motion of the Senator Beaudoin , the debate is adjourned . )
Library of the Parliament
withdrawal of the motion Authorize Authorized to the Committee Joint Standing of sit during the sittings of the Senate
to the appeal of the motion No. 32 :
that the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament be authorized to sit during the sittings and the adjournments of the Senate ; and
that a message be Message to the House of the Commons for the in inform .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I request that this motion be withdrawn of the Paper .
the question has been resolved by the Adopted of the Prime point formula under the Order to Rapports of committees to regarding the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is withdrawn . )
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
motion Authorize Authorized to the Committee of study the state of the system of health - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Michael Kirby , having given notice Tuesday 28 October 1986 :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology be authorized to examine , for in do report , the state of the system of health to the Canada .
more particularly , that the Committee be authorized to examine :
has ) Changes principles basic on capably is based the system public of health to the Canada ;
d ) Conformity system of health to the Canada - pressure and constraint ;
e ) Conformity role of the government federal in the system of health to the Canada ;
that the Committee presented his report final to the more later the 14 December 2001 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , by derogation to the rules usuelles , to table all report deposited of the Clerk of the Senate if the Senate not seat not to this time - there ; and that the report be reputation have been tabled to the Senate .
this mandate has received the approval unanimous of the members of the Committee .
this study has for subject basic of take act of the changes important on the point of speak in the system of care of health for various reasons , including the evolution demographics , the innovations generic and technological , and the expectations new of the Canadians regarding their rights in Equity of care of health .
the members of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology feel that this is probably , on the plan social , the question strategic the more important and also the more cause in our country .
the impact of the costs related to the care of health are such that the system present not will strong probably not viable on the plan economic in a future result .
the members of the Committee want / a series of studies who would all related to of the studies intimate pr?alablement , of by their about and according their progress logical .
we want offer a gallery where the you able discuss , of a manner general , of the policy Canadian of the care of health in the years to come and , more particularly , of the role of the government federal .
we hope also , with the time , power develop a series of recommendations strategic to the intention of the government federal , recommendations regarding his role in the system of care of health .
if the Senate envisaged this mandate , the Committee steering ?laborera , in January , a plan of work detailed who will submitted to the members of the Committee , then to those of the Committee of the Economy Economy .
the hon. Consiglio Di Nino :
honourable senators , then - I ask few questions ?
the chairman has he consulted the Minister of the Health to this about ?
the case afforded , can - he we do share of the results of these consultation ?
the Senator Kirby :
if I had consulted the Minister of the Health and that he me had d?conseill? of do this study , I me if found in a situation sensitive .
if the motion is endorsed and that a plan of work is machinery , I happy happy of me maintain with the representatives of the Department .
I not have not spoke of this question to the Minister or to no representative of the Department .
the Senator Di Nino :
honourable senators , the questions of health chevauchent of the sectors of jurisdiction federal and provincial .
the chairman has he the intention of cooperate with the provinces or of disseminating the efforts Process by the different levels when come the time of planned the business future of the Committee ?
the Senator Kirby :
honourable senators , I hesitant to answer , because the study would represents on the role of the government federal in the field of the health .
in this looked , he would desirable of discuss with of the ministers provincial and of the representatives of the provinces and of hear their evidence .
the Committee not has absolutely not the intention of if immiscer in the questions of jurisdiction provincial .
we want determine what changes he should contribute to the policy federal current .
the Senator Di Nino :
honourable senators , the care of health authority primarily of the provinces and of the territories .
the patients are directly and primarily affected by the provinces .
I me request how this type of study can be realized without the cooperation serious of those who fournissent the services of health to the public .
he must well understand how these roles can change in the future structure of the care of health .
the Senator Kirby :
honourable senators , I am fully of agreed with the Senator Di Nino .
I r?pondais to his first question when I have said that the Committee entendrait the witnesses of the governments provincial .
all as the reason who me value to not not speak to the Minister of the Health before the approval of this study by the Senate , we do attention to not not have the air of approve or of adopt the referred of a question to a Committee Senate on the basic of a veto of the governments provincial .
of other share , the government provincial and of many other organizations are of the participants to share full in these questions and we wish the consult during the process .
the Senator Di Nino :
honourable senators , I not wish not extend this debate .
that characterized - he a problem to the Committee if I ajournais this debate until to this that I can obtain the comments of the members of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology ?
the Senator Kirby :
honourable senators , he there would a problem if the motion not was not endorsed before the adjournment of No .
if the Senate envisaged this mandate , we have the intention of work in January to the development of a plan detailed .
I not bring not this effort if we not have not the approval .
the Senator Di Nino :
I not cr?erai not of behind .
I like add someone something .
we entreprenons many of studies and of business in Committee without that he there gave of debate to the Senate or with very little of debate .
therefore , when we deducted per 100,000 $ or more , he must that the Canadians who the wish carry know of what he account in read our deliberations .
this is very widest .
by therefore , if you not have not of objection , we we pencherons on the question the week next and I move the adjournment of the debate .
the hon. Nicholas W . Taylor :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator Kirby of have developed this idea of the before because that this is someone something that the Senate can do and for which he is qualified .
I thank also the Senator Di Nino of have raised a idea to which I had thought , to know that he not would not needless of put the focus on the provincial many that on the federal .
I pretend that the idea of the Senator Kirby of not not ask the leave pre to the ministers of the Health of afraid of essuyer a refusal is good - and I talking in knowledge of because after have high nine children who have all used this strategy .
I know very well how this strategy works and she seems operate .
in our system of health public , the part private , by example , the offices of doctors , transpires always a some importance .
if the Committee in had the time , he could if dealt on the reports between the private and the public .
as the honourable senators the know , this is a question very cause .
the Senator Kirby :
honourable senators , I pretend that that will certainly a question that we undergo in detail .
addition the fact that this is enough obvious , when you analysis the questions related to the direction Social experienced the country is ceiling , the question of know if the system of health present is really sustainable step the question essential .
this is this who we has expediency to enter in the debate .
however , he there has three or four weeks , the government of the Alberta has fact a statement of principle on the construction of hospitals private to Calgary .
my reaction personal to the Reading of this statement of the government of the Alberta , this is that I have found this proposal all to fact consistent to the Act Canadian on the health .
I the say in despite of the comments very ?motifs of a myriad of people to the conflict of the proposal of the Alberta , there including of the people of the other place .
be said in way , Lueders number of these people - there argue , in their protests , that the proposal of the government of the Alberta not is not consistent to the Act Canadian on the health .
he me seems that if we must hold a debate on any the question of the system of health , he agreeable to all the least of if Corrections on of the facts and on the reality .
this is why I think that we must we dealt on the question of the sector private .
I am all to fact of agreed .
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , to the risk of me repeat gallantry nauseam , I must express my concern further to the fact that the you request to the Senate that he give card unequal to a Committee .
I not have nothing against the subject of the study , but this is therefore that the you welcomes for all the requests of the committees when he if is of studies who are also complex , d?taill?es and requisite that similar - side .
this study conducting a year and half , even more , because she could be constitutes for of the reasons valid .
the Senator Nolin has asked the Authorized of hold a study who conducting to the least three years , without even present of plan of work General or of budget .
how poorest this study to the Senate ?
still a time , honourable senators , I think that we cautions the hub before the boeufs .
we giving the Authorized , after what , the Committee of Economy Economy , including , must if machine for find the funds , the staff and all the rest .
the good way of proceed for a Committee would , of first , of establish his budget , of define his mandate and of draw the length of the study .
for my share , I find that this way of proceed is preferable to similar where the you give card unequal to the Committee without if sort of this that that poorest and of the time that that conducting .
the hon. Colin Kenny :
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
not , I not have not fact that .
the Senator Di Nino :
honourable senators , I not believe not that this be there a question valid .
I believe understand that , according the Senator Staunton - Lynch , he we must review the process that we have followed until to now for see if we could the improve in requiring , before of approve the study , of have to the least a idea of his cost .
without that , he if could that we we dealing to approve a study whose the cost final if ?l?verait to 40 million $ , that we not have not .
I believe that the note of the hon. Senator is very valid .
I hope convince my colleagues , of the least those of this side - side who are members of the Committee Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology , of reflect also to this question , in hoping that we able have a discussion met to this about the week next .
I not want not defeat the debate , but I happy happy of propose the adjournment , to least that someone a of other not means take the speak .
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I me find to be of agreed to the time with the Senator Staunton - Lynch and with the Senator Kenny , even if their positions are diam?tralement contradictory .
I will you explain why .
the Rules of the Senate of the Canada not allows not to a Committee of ask of the money before that his mandate not gave been approved .
I am of agreed with the Senator Staunton - Lynch for say that we do the things to the others , this is - to - say that before of Authorize a Committee to do a study , we should have a idea of this that she poorest .
this is exactly why , when I have fact my request , - I believe that this was he there has two weeks - I have given a Senate a plan of work and indicated the cost approximatif of this plan of work .
target , this budget has been submitted this morning to the Committee of the Economy Economy , who the has repaired of half .
the Committee of the Economy Economy felt - and he if find that I am of agreed with him on this point - that he not had not a enough good idea of this that the other committees r?clameraient ; he has therefore decided of include the amounts budget step by step .
according me , we have raised this after - afternoon a problem further to our Rules and to our procedures .
the Senator Kirby has presented to the behalf of the Committee a request of study special that all the members of this Committee have seconded to the unanimously .
he party therefore if present before the Senate , pursuant to our Rules present , for go the Senate of this proposal and obtain the leave ongoing before of power then prepare a budget before be referred to the under - Committee responsible of the Budgets and , in end of account , to the Committee of the Economy Economy .
I not am not in disagreement with the Position of the Senator Staunton - Lynch .
in fact , I am of agreed with him and we have already had of the discussions to this about in the past because this is , according me , the way whose we should proceed .
the Senator Kenny :
honourable senators , I not see really nothing of difficulty in the provisions current of the Rules .
I not believe not that the Committee of the Economy Economy should decide for we on what studies or interpellations we can we dealt .
I not find nothing to repeat to the model proposed by the Senator Carstairs , this is - to - say that the Committee give a estimate general of the costs of the study .
he if is in amount of a process in two steps .
if the approval not just not of a side as of the other , the study not if will not .
the first step introducing to obtain the approval of the Senate .
the second is of if contact to the Committee of the Economy Economy in the hope of obtain the resources financial The .
if the Senate refuses his approval , needless of if contact to the Economy Economy .
if the Senate give his endorse , while that the Economy Economy not has not of what fund properly the study , the Committee is private of means and not can enable the study .
he would without doubt possible to his chairman of go the Senate of the problem and of in call of the report of the Economy Economy , this that all Senator is in right of do .
I believe by against that he is difficulty of if contact of first to the Committee , who can do barrier to the bill .
( on the motion of the Senator Di Nino , the debate is adjourned . )
adjournment
leave having been granted of return to the notice of motion of the government :
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate if adjourns today today , this be until to Monday next , the 13 December 99 , to 16 p.m. .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
leave granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate if adjourned to the Monday 13 December 99 , to 16 p.m. . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 20
the Monday 13 December 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
the Late of the hon. R . James raise , Q Q .
tribute
the SENATE
the Monday 13 December 99
the sitting is met to 16 p.m. , the Speaker met to the Chair .
prayers .
the Late of the hon. R . James raise , Q Q .
tribute
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , by respect for our colleague who just of d?c?der , the hon. Senator raise , I you invite to you rise and to complying with me a minute of silence .
( the senators observent a minute of silence . )
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , in sign of respect for our former colleague , the Senator raise , I move that the Senate if adjourned now .
( the Senate if adjourned to 14 p.m. tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 21
the Tuesday 14 December 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
the Late of the hon. R . James raise , Q Q .
tributes
' ' '
the Manitoba
the First nation of Cross Lake - Conformity rate of suicide high
the New - Brunswick
the bill of bill designed to establish a day of comm?moration of the Holocaust
the Games Olympics special
Ottawa - Changes Games of Winter of the year 2000
visitor of Gallery
languages official
the Act of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
report revised of the Committee
the adjournment
bill of bill on the Agreement final nisga' has
first Reading
bill of bill of appropriation No. 2 for 99 - 2000
first Reading
the Association Parliamentary Canada - NATO
the delegation to the session Annual of 99 held to Amsterdam , to the Netherlands - Lower - Tabled of the report
the recommendations of the Commission Royal on the Peoples aboriginal regarding the service government aboriginal
notice of motion Authorize the Committee of the Peoples aboriginal to until the date of Presented of his report final
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the bill of bill on the lacked of the process referendum - Changes guideline of application
the Court Supreme
the terminologie regarding the decision on the referred relatif to the referendum
the transport
the Nova - Nova - Conformity commitment of the government federal of expand to four Means the road EH
the Finance
the distribution of appropriation to the payments of the Plan of Pension of the Canada in case of federalist of the wedding
the health
the possible of a regulation regarding the adding of caffeine to the drinks
the request of a study on the effects of the caffeine
the behind in the publication of the report scientific
the fisheries and the Oceans
the RCCs coastal - Changes bidding of croisi?re to the first ministers
Questions delayed to of the questions Oral
the economy
the Purchase of major companies by of the businesses U.S. - Position policy of the government
election Canada
the Manitoba - Position loss of data negotiates - Conformity transfer of data personal - Conformity principle of the consent - Changes procedures of security regarding the data personal
the trade international
the failure of the discussions to the Organization World of the trade - Changes grants agricultural of the States members - Conformity assistance to the farmers Canadian
the heritage
the status of the Museum commemorative of the Holocaust
Order OF orders
the Act of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
third Reading - Suspended of the debate
the business of the Senate
the Summit of the Francophonie
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
the bill of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
third Reading
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in implement of conventions tax
third Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the speech of the seated
motion of Adopted of the directed in response
the speech of the seated
the Adresse in response - Motion seconded to the end of the debate the eighteenth day of sitting - Withdrawn of the section
the Act on the snitch in the service public
second Reading - adjournment of the debate
the Act on the Assent Royal
the Act on the Parliament of the Canada
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Continued of the debate
the Act on the Immigration
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the ascertain tabled pursuant to the Act on the transport to the Canada Authorize of the discussions on a proposal of the sector private designed the Purchase of a society air - Report of the Committee of the transport and of the Communications - Adjourned of the debate
Economy Economy , Budgets and Administration
Adopted of the second report of the Committee
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
Authorized to the Committee of the Finance national of study the Estimates of the Estimates
withdrawal of the motion of amendment
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe - Position eighteenth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary held to St. - Petersbourg , in Russia - Inquiry
the Ontario
the Act on the restructuring regional - Conformity refusal of the government spend of adopt the recommendation designed to do of Ottawa a city bilingual - Inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
the Senate
motion of keeping of the procedure of Assent Royal - Maintien of the motion
the SENATE
the Tuesday 14 December 99
the sitting is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker met to the Chair .
prayers .
the Late of the hon. R . James raise , Q Q .
tributes
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , not more later that the week last , I me am spoken with our colleague Jim raise , whose the Late injury in the night of Sunday we has all afflig?s .
he was as he has been during any his life - a life substantially by more of a tragedy personal - , this is - to - say sto?que , energetic and , by - above all , optimism .
he is death to the following of a long illness , who has need of the treatment difficult and evolving , without for many enter his showing of live .
never I not the have heard if complaining or even show of the warning of d?couragement , then even that he knew that all the interventions Medical if av?reraient outlive .
I suggests to of other , more competent that me , the care of do the testimonials of his proceed career , as privacy that public .
this who me frappait home him , this were the hyphenate makes who teamwork of him a esteemed colleague and friend .
loyalist , dedicated and committed , he was always prepared to sit when his vote was required , to the backs of obligations personal urgent , and always sorry when the illness the saw of take share to the business of the House .
how of time him has you said of do move his health in Prime held and how of time not in has he nothing fact ?
still the year last , during a period of prognosis , then that his cancer seemed have been beat , he has agreed with enthusiasm the Speaker of the under - Committee of the Affairs of the former Veterans , when the Senator Phillips has took his retirement .
he believer that in this role , he could contributing to the improvement of the conditions of life of those and those who have served their homeland .
he has always late that the things if ensure summoning if crudely .
that this be to the caucus , to the House or to the within of a Committee , his interventions were always big with many of attention because his wisdom and his logical astonishes a sad particular to all debate .
be wise , this is stature the experience and the knowledge and know the apply judicieusement .
therefore in was - he of Jim , also well to the Parliament in as that member distinguished that home him as faithful friend .
certainly , he there has someone prize to thinking that this deuil is shared by few - each , but that not reduced in nothing the expanse of our loss .
I offer my sincere sympathy to his family .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I invitations , with my colleagues , the disappearing of the Senator Jim raise .
the Senator raise was a of my friends , as he the was for many of between you .
I have many appreciate Jim raise and the incredible experience whose he has fact advantage this House in as that lawyer , man of Affairs , former member federal and Senator .
through to his experience , he was able of go to the heart of the problems and of do a enormous contribution to the good government of the Canada , follows by the through of the Senate .
I not have not fact part of the under - Committee with him in this ability , but I have observed the Senator raise in his role of chairman of the under - Committee responsible of examine the questions of the Defence national , including the role of keeping of the peace that plays the Canada in the world .
in 1993 , the Committee that he chaired has tabled in this place a report who establishment absolutely of the prescience .
he identifiait of the points who , if you if there was attacked then , number licences of avoid a great number of the problems faced if are heurt?s our efforts of keeping of the peace these past years .
the Senator raise learned his family .
I the know because that we were friends , and to because of the many discussions that we have liberty during the illness of his wife and of other events familiaux , whose some tragic .
the Senator raise , his good sense and his force we miss enormous .
I me join to the honourable senators for contact to his family my very sincere sympathy .
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , that fact 38 years that Jim raise and me are friends .
thinking to his life and to his death works to corners on the courage and the tolerance .
in 1958 , to the age of 30 years , Jim raise has lost his single brother to the outcome of a long and douloureuse illness .
in 1990 , Jim and his wife Jane have lost their more young son of way tragic .
in 1994 , Jane is died of a long illness who the had strongly affaiblie .
in 1996 , Jim has received of his doctors a pronostic providing his own death .
his family , though not ?pargn?e by the malheurs , was very talentueuse and she has known a great success .
his father was member of the Court Supreme of the Saskatchewan . Jim has continued in a society of lawyers to Regina who dealt the behalf of the raise .
he is became man of Affairs and steering of business .
he was generous in his activities volunteers , then he has commonly a life public .
he has served 7 years to the House of the Commons and 20 years to the Senate .
far of if replier on him - even and not if apitoyant never on his fate , he has concentr? any his attention on his duty and on his interests until to the last unflinching .
when his friends if Australian of his health , he knowing evidence of a great plain and of a r?alisme total .
then he orientait the conversation toward the questions who entirely his spirit to this time - there .
during of a conversation that I have reflected recently with him , these questions were the state of the settlements military of the Canada , the outraged of the Saskatchewan deals , the Museum of the War to Ottawa and , well heard , the prospects of the Party Conservative federal .
he supportait all his problems of way d?contract?e and aside all his responsibilities with a seriously and a integrity copies .
this was a man hon. , and the example of his life and of his death is a heritage whose can be proud his family , his friends and his colleagues .
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I like me also contact my sympathy to the family of the Senator raise .
when I am arrived to Regina in 1976 for office my position of Justice , I knew already the family raise .
you not can if tour in Regina without let on a point of interest referred this family has given his behalf or left his Gallery .
I have known the Senator raise indirectly to departure of his Monde accomplishments .
in the profession , Jim raise was a man vacancy .
always well prepared .
he their said not only how deal the case , but he their expliquait the importance of examine of the questions more broader , of the questions more deep and the aspects moral of any case whose the courts were before .
he had a respect for the bill who not if odd not home many in the province .
the Senator raise was also known for his actions political in Saskatchewan . Integrity my share , after the have met , I me told how he had could do of the door - to - door , because he not had certainly not the adversity and the exub?rance that you associate often to the members of the class policy .
yet , when I have began to know Regina , a city who not was not the mine , I have including that his commitment effacing to virtually all the questions importait to the people of his city and of his province .
he amorphous a way of do know his point of view on a question and he wanted a solution avantageuse for the community .
I not think not that he there gave a question whose he not if be not served quiet .
he not agency never the Speaker or the position the more in view , but he was always in coulisse to give of the advice .
he has fact evidence of the type of leadership who is the Gallery of a man of state and not simply of a policy .
with him , the two were seldom .
the Senator raise had many of influence in the city of Regina .
he can be difficult of work in a more small community when you has need of many of money and that you must resolve of great problems .
there still , he runners quiet to of many services community .
therefore , he satellite a community more broad , those who not number normally not been associated to the Senator raise and that we not gone not known here .
those of between we who come of Regina can if pay in of many services community for speak to the people and if apercevoir that , there still , in scenes , the Senator raise knowing in sort that the fate of the citizens means of Regina be a little better .
the Senator raise we miss , but his implement perdurera .
of many persons to Regina were to the aware of his illness and guide secr?tement that he if in off still a time .
however , we are many to have including that the end was poised when he is oversees among the unto for commissioned of the research on the origins of his family in Saskatchewan , with the discretion that we him flagrant .
we knew that he not was already more the even man , then that until - there he was always turned toward the future , and many of his friends have including that he if pr?parait to the inexorable .
honourable senators , we not oublierons not Jim raise and I hope that his family find of the solace in his implement .
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , I like take the speak me also to the following of the Late of the late Jim raise .
he we sometimes of the things when you is appointed to the Senate .
he we is including given of meet of the persons whose we have heard speak , and Jim raise was the a of these persons .
Jim has accomplished this that we are oversight of call in Saskatchewan a real achievement policy - to know that he has won for the Party Conservative a seat to Regina .
for those among the honourable senators who not familiar by Regina , that they managing that when his steering of campaign him has asked , during of the campaign election of 1958 , this that he probably of do for lead to well this campaign to Regina , John Diefenbaker had answered : to Faites freestyle the city ! to
in the sector political , we are oversight of call this city the to place Red to .
all the gauchistes of the Saskatchewan if find to Regina .
Jim raise has fact someone something that little of Conservatives have succeeded .
when the population of Regina him has awarded the victory in this election , she has shown any the believe that she him dealt .
this victory has drew on him the attention Mr. Clark , who the has appointed to the Senate in 1979 .
I not knew not very well Jim , well that I mandatory heard speak of him .
the a of the good things who me ensure touring is that I have could better the appreciate in the richer to the within of the caucus .
I admire his integrity and his honesty .
honourable senators , I will promoting a something that I have observed during my six years of presence to the caucus and this is that Jim raise knew in come to the fact .
this was a man who not spoke not many , but his interventions arrivaient always to point appointed and his advice were of the more pris?s by all .
they me miss many .
to the behalf of the members of my family and of all the population of my city , I can affirming that Jim has many fact for our province .
he has always fact evidence of good sense and he we miss many .
I greetings therefore our more sincere sympathy and sympathy to his family .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I you ask of well front you rise and you join to me for complying a time of silence to the memory of our colleague and friend honour , the Senator James raise .
( the senators observent a minute of silence . )
' ' '
the Manitoba
the First nation of Cross Lake - Conformity rate of suicide high
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I like bringing to the attention of the Senate the conditions tragic in expelling live the members of the First nation of Cross Lake , a contingency stretch in the part North of the Manitoba , to the south of Thompson .
honourable senators , to the during of the five last months , seven population of this community of driving souls if are ability the life .
cent other have tried of the do to the during of the even period .
these statistics are effarantes and you not can if allow of the ignore .
he there has of other aspects startling to this history .
of way general , the initiatives of fight against the suicide in the communities improve primarily the young men because that they have always set the group the more to risk .
however , in the First nation of Cross Lake , the majority of the persons having tried of if deleted the life were seniors of 20 to 30 years and he there had many of men that of women .
the more young to have tried of if Latimer in the last months was child of nine years .
he is difficult for me of understand the despair who could watch a young of nine years to front if learn a passing in the head .
he is also difficult of imagine the even despair home a great - mother of 59 years .
honourable senators , you not can if allow of move this crisis under silence .
to the end of September , you has developed on foot a service telephone of emergency telephone Standing .
I not can that assume that this service has licences of reduce the number of suicides .
however , the budget of 15 100,000 $ who there has been awarded will soon exhausted .
we must we ensure that this service able rely on of the funds additional for power continue to operate .
many more important still , honourable senators , we must correct the problems syst?miques who , in this community , limited these results horribles .
the New - Brunswick
a bill of bill of initiative Parliamentary has been presented to the Assembly legislative by the member Conservative Eric MacKenzie order that the you comm?more each year the Holocaust .
when the Assembly legislative approuvera the bill of bill this week , the province of the New - Brunswick , of where I just , will the third province of the Canada to designate a day where we we souviendrons of the atrocities whose the humanity is able , the assassinat abrogating of million of men , of women and of children , by example , and where we we rappellerons of the thousands of soldiers , men and women , who have fought addition - sea for reversed the equipment to killing of the Third Reich and covering the camps of the death .
the Prime day of comm?moration of the Holocaust to the New - Brunswick will the 2 May 2000 .
the province of the Ontario has adopted a legislation legislative similar the year last and the government of the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward has adopted a bill Authorize on the Day of comm?moration of the Holocaust the week last .
to all these provinces , I say to thank to .
to the time of the Tabled of the legislation legislative , Mr. MacKenzie has said :
to the end of the century the more Farmers in the history of the humanity , we share the obligation to the enter of the new millennium of remind the history and of in learn of the lessons .
as the has wrote George Santayana :
those who not can if remind the past are burdened to the repeat .
he probably well that this motion be introduced the 9 December met given that the community international performs to this date two important remembrances in Equity of rights of the human .
the 9 December Gallery the 51e anniversary of the Adopted of the Convention of the Nations Nations for the prevention of the crime of genocide , who fact of the genocide a offence to the right international , and the 10 December marquele 51e anniversary of the proclamation of the Declaration Universal of the rights of the man .
I am proud of this new legislation legislative of the government Boer who remind a of the more choquantes abuses of the rights of the human .
the remember of the Holocaust should provide the outlawing necessary to a Opposition active to the racism and to the haine .
we not have that to feuilleter each day the newspapers for take knowledge of actions evil who doing equally the side black of the existence human .
honourable senators , met given that the time fact nothing the survivors , he we responsibility of speak of the lessons of the Holocaust in quality of parliamentarians , of leaders of the community and also of members of the race human .
if I can me allow a small time of mired , honourable senators , you notice that the three provinces who have 264 a Day of comm?moration of the Holocaust are directed by the Party Progressive - Conservative .
I hope that the government federal embo?tera soon the not and will of the Day of comm?moration of the Holocaust a day national of recueillement .
the Games Olympics special
Ottawa - Changes Games of Winter of the year 2000
the hon. Janis Johnson :
honourable senators , I wish to you attention today today a event important , because we ajournerons probably this week .
I the getting to payments of member of the Foundation of the Games Olympics special of the Canada and of volunteer of long date .
the event whose I talking conducting five days , to rely du25 January 2000 , when the city of Ottawa and the region of the capital national will the forward of the Games Olympics special of Winter Canadian .
someone slightly athletes and 200 entra?neurs initiatives of across to the Canada for participate to these games .
someone slightly parents and 1 200 volunteers initiatives also support the athletes .
the Games Olympics special if are already held a time to Ottawa , in 1981 , when we have welcomed the games of been .
this time - side , he if Glenney well course of the sports of Winter .
we assisterons including to of the intellectual of skiing alpin , of skating merit , of hauls and of raquette .
many of between we minute a great believe to the because of the Games Olympics special , but all the world not knows not that these games constitute of the events sports of senior counting who , by their aspect soaring , could support the comparison with not important what warming athl?tique .
this is this that wanted the Dr. Frank Hayden , of the University McMaster , who has spent his life to the because of the conditionnement physical .
you you rappellerez can - be his famous program of five million of conditionnement physical that he had developed to the point with the Bomber Royal Canadian .
the Dr. Hayden not partageait not the assumption generally widespread that the children d?ficients rehabilitation , and more later the adults , were unable of participate to the sports and to the programs of pursuits .
in soumettant a group of children to a program intense of conditionnement physical , the Dr. Hayden has demonstrated that the d?ficients rehabilitation could essential enough of Paralympians for if delivering to of the intellectual athl?tiques of level international .
he has then based the Games Olympics special .
the Games Olympics special if are held for the first time in 1968 to Soldier Field , to cardiology , and these games rely now more of a million of participants in 140 country .
these three benefits are still accrus by the appreciation and the support of a assembled .
I ask to all the honourable senators of try of attend to the a of the activities of the Games Olympics special to the during of the week of the 25 January .
they will very impressionn?s by the determination and the h?ro?sme of our athletes .
I have attended to a great number of these activities , to the Canada and to the abroad .
to my notice , the Games Olympics special symbolisent the supplemented that can contribute the sport and the healthy of the body and of the spirit who just to force of determination , as in witnessing our athletes .
the oath of the Games Olympics special is very eloquent .
he is read to the beginning of each of the games by a athlete who allume then the flame Olympic .
the oath said follows :
made that I commuting , if , made that I respectful boldest in my efforts .
honourable senators , I hope you see to the games .
visitor of Gallery
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I you attention the presence to our gallery of our colleague and friend recently retrait?e , the hon. Senator Marian Maloney .
languages official
Presented of the second report ducomit? Joint Standing
the hon. Rose - Marie Losier - Losier , co of the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official , presented the report following :
the Tuesday 14 December 99
the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official has the honour of present his
second REPORT
the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official has adopted in Committee the 7 December 99 the resolution next :
he BE THEREFORE , - That the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official of the Senate and of the House of the Commons is of notice that the Assembly legislative of the Ontario should establish by seaway legislative , that the city of Ottawa , capital of the Canada has two languages official , the English and the French .
respectfully submitted ,
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when taken - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Losier - Losier , the study of the report is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
the Act of implementation in Bill of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
report revised of the Committee
the hon. Peter A . Stollery :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , I like present the version revised of the fifth report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign , Authorize on the bill of bill C - 4 , Act of implementation in Bill of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil .
for of the reasons technical , the comments who number should be included in our report , who was presented the jeudi9 December 99 , attend omises by inadvertent .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Tuesday 14 December 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign has the honour of present his
fifth REPORT R?VIS?
your Committee , referred has been obedience the bill of bill C - 4 , Act Authorize implementation in Bill of the Agreement concluded between the government of the Canada , the governments of States members of the Agency spatiale European , the government of the Japan , the government of the Federation of Russia and the government of States - United of America on the cooperation Current to the Station spatiale international civil and Dolly of the changes related to of other laws , has , pursuant to the Order of referred of the 1 December 99 examined obedience bill of bill and in fact now report without amendment , but with the comments following :
the Committee like that two points precise ensure completed .
first , the Committee is cleansing interested to examine has ) the regulations that the Governor in board believe necessary for the application of the presented bill and for give effect to the Agreement and b ) the Code of conduct who each the chain of command formed to the astronautes of the CFTO spatiale .
the Committee , nervous of the scope training of the clause regarding the notice of the Parliament , to the section 10 of the bill of bill C - 4 , request that the government of the Canada , by the through of the Agency spatiale Canadian , him r?f?re the regulations and the Code of conduct directly , soon that they will exclude , after have first been released in the Gazette of the Canada .
second , the subsection 11 ( 2.34 )
not define not the expression to Canadian flight element to used in the version English of the notwithstanding 11 ( 2.31 )
b ) .
the government of the Canada , in the bill of bill of together who must be presented soon , should clarify the subsection 11 ( 2.31 )
order of resolve the concerns of the Committee to this regard .
respectfully submitted ,
the adjournment
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until to tomorrow , the Wednesday 15 December 99 , to 13 p.m. 30 .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
bill of bill on the Agreement final nisga' has
first Reading
his Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that he has received of the Commons a message informed of the bill of bill C - 9 , Act Authorize implementation in force of the Agreement final nisga' has .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
the hon. Jack Austin :
with the leave , to the next sitting of the Senate .
his Hon. the Speaker :
leave granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
not .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , usually , he must a notice of two days before of proceed to the debate to the step of the second Reading and , if I understand well , the leave of tributes this deadline not is not granted .
the second Reading of the bill of bill would therefore placed to the Order of the day of the sitting of Thursday next .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the consent met refused , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the sitting of the Thursday 16 December 99 .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , if such is the desire of the Senate , can - be could - we give the consent unanimous for in conclusion with this bill of bill who has been examined of a way if exhaustive to the other place ?
his Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators , for that the second Reading of the bill of bill be placed to the Order of the day of Thursday next , the 16 December 99 ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the sitting of the Thursday 16 December 99 . )
bill of bill of appropriation No. 2 for 99 - 2000
first Reading
his Hon. the Speaker announcement that he has received of the Commons a message informed of the bill of bill C - 21 , Act Authorize granting to Majesty Majesty of appropriation for the Administration public federal during the fiscal if laid 31 March 2000 .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
the delegation to the session Annual of 99 held to Amsterdam , to the Netherlands - Lower - Tabled of the report
the hon. Bill Rompkey :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the third report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - NATO who represented the Canada to the 45e session Annual held to Amsterdam ( Netherlands - Lower ) , of the 11 to the 15 November 99 .
the recommendations of the Commission Royal on the Peoples aboriginal regarding the service government aboriginal
notice of motion Authorize the Committee of the Peoples aboriginal to until the date of Presented of his report final
the hon. Charlie Watt :
honourable senators , I give notice that Wednesday , the 15 December 99 , I move :
that , by derogation to the Order adopted by the Term 24 November 99 , the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal be authorized to do a study and to present a report on the recommendations of the Commission Royal on the Peoples aboriginal ( Document Parliamentary No. 2 / 35 - 508 . )
relatively to the service government aboriginal and , more particularly , to obtain the point of view of the Peoples aboriginal and of the other involved on the questions following :
2 . the mechanisms necessary to the ushered of the new relations structurelles ;
3 . the models of self government aboriginal necessary for answer to the needs of the Peoples aboriginal and for concorder with the new relations structurelles ;
that the Committee be authorized to table his report final to the more later the 16 February 2000 , and that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the Electronic of the results of his study contained in his report final , and this until au29 February 2000 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices usual , to table his report deposited of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be reputation have been tabled to the Senate .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the bill of bill on the lacked of the process referendum - Changes guideline of application
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , the section 2 . ( 2 ) of the bill of bill on the lacked of the process referendum define the factors that the House of the Commons must consider for determine if a majority clear of Quebecers if are plebiscite for the 237 of the Quebec .
you you rappellerez that during of the last referendum , 49,6p. per of the Quebecers if are plebiscite in favour of the sovereignty of the Quebec parent of a offer of partnership to the rest of the Canada .
50,4p. per of the Quebecers if are contrary to this option .
if you analysis of a little more almost these percentages in service of the affiliation ethnic of the Quebecers , the data of Statistics Canada and the results by branch of vote , you in sometimes to the conclusion shared by to little almost all the expert that 62p. per of the francophones if are plebiscite in favour of the option spectre and , to the opposed , realistic per of the English and 98p. per of the allophones if are plebiscite against the option of the Party Quebec .
considering that the francophones constitute the majority of the population of the Quebec , that the vote of the English and of the allophones is concentr? only in some areas d?termin?es of the Quebec , the Minister can - he we say if , in case of a victory of the compound of the OUI of the ind?pendantistes - that I not research not of the all - the distribution ethnic and geographical of the vote will taken in consideration during of the review of the lacked of the majority of the constituents who if will plebiscite in favour of this option ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , he there has two consistently to all that , as the Court Supreme the has well underlined .
the Prime , this is the lacked of the question , and the bill of bill is enough attributes to this about .
the second , this is the majority clear , and this is this whose talking the hon. Senator .
the court , in his deliberations and in his decision , has well took care of not not define in detail what factors would took in consideration before the vote .
the bill of bill talking of some factors whose he met hold account .
the bill of bill not pr?juge not of the circumstances and not described not specifically to what level he met draw the limit , even if that has certainly should be trying to some times .
to this regard , the bill of bill is all to fact consistent to the decision of the Court Supreme .
the Senator Nolin :
honourable senators , this is the reason for which , in my preamble , I you have given the percentages .
no expert not has challenged that the majority desQu?b?cois francophones , 62p. per , have voted OUI to the question of the Party Quebec during of the referendum of 1995 .
to the opposed , realistic per of the English and 98p. per of the allophones have voted NON .
your bill of bill not is - he not in considering of give least of importance to the vote of the majority French that to extend of the minority English and allophone ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , you not attempts not in the bill of bill of give more of importance to a part of the electorate in particular .
some conditions will examined to the time of the assessment of the quality of the majority .
some of these conditions are contained in the bill of bill , and of other not the are not .
that if explain by the fact that you not can include what considerations enhanced in line of account .
however , the bill of bill provides clear a review public of all the factors .
the essential , this is that all the Quebecers , what that be their origin ethnic , must power if express clear , by a majority clear , and that this majority be the result of a question clear who their has been raised .
the Senator Nolin :
honourable senators , a majority clear not would - she not a majority of each of the bracket ethnic of the population of the Quebec ?
the Senator Finestone :
honourable senators , am - I a life of second class ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I hesitant , by principle , to determine to the advance the percentages precise for wishes this question .
faithful to the notice of the Court Supreme , the bill of bill provides that the you need hold account of the circumstances existing to the time of a future referendum , this that expect the Protagonists political to this time - there .
hope that that not happen never .
however , there not is not the question .
I the repeat , the bill of bill not if precludes not of the principle of the notice of the Court Supreme , who provides that , to the time timely , the Protagonists political dictate this who represents a majority enough .
the bill of bill states very specifically some of the factors whose he will held account .
the hon. Jean - Claude Rivest :
honourable senators , in this who respect the question of the unity national , I repeat to the Minister that according the history recent of the Canada , the only way effective of combat the s?paratisme to the Quebec is for the government of the Canada of have a vision on the reports between the Quebec and the together of the society Canadian .
I getting including reference to the then of Lester B . Pearson or of Brian Mulroney , where the rate of symbolic to the s?paratisme had falling of 20 to 25 per .
historically , to the Quebec , he there has had two ways for the parties sovereignists or separatists of try of obtain the symbolic of the Quebecers to the idea of the independence : the seaway referendum for obtain a majority of OUI to the question and the plurality of representatives to the Assembly national to the during of a election , as similar of 1966 with the RIN , and in 1970 and in 1973 with the Party Quebec of Ren? L?vesque .
according this second option , the government spectre elected would consulted to a statement of sovereignty .
the present bill of bill of the government not treating that of the seaway referendum .
that arriverait - he to the unity of the Canada if a party spectre to the Quebec became to the proposal of Ren? L?vesque of the beginning of the years 70 , this is - to - say that the election of a government of the Party Quebec , who is a government clear spectre , impliquerait , on a simple majority of members to the Assembly national , the implementation in Bill of the separation of the rest of the Canada ?
the bill of bill not said nothing there - above .
for you show the uniqueness saugrenu of the intervention of the government federal in this debate , in this first assumption , the Party Quebec said that with the election of a government spectre and this mandate of the population , he Courts to the independence , as that if is fact in 1970 and in 1973 .
they not have not win , but this was their program .
according this assumption , the government federal adopterait - he a bill for determine the nature of the platform - form election of the Party Quebec for clarify his option on the sovereignty ?
you understand why the Position of the government Canadian not is not accepted by the together of the stakeholders to the Quebec and why she is saugrenue .
why the government Canadian not timely he not his opinion , as this is his right of the do ?
he is all to fact legitimate that he the convey because that he is the wharfinger Prime of the unity national .
that he suggests to the Assembly national and , particularly to the Party Liberal of the Quebec , the door - speak federalist on the territory Quebec , the care of do the battle on the lacked of the question and on the d?finiton of the majority .
that help of a way many more mechanics the option federalist and the option of the unity Canadian .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the question of the hon. Senator is enough complex , as by his length that by his nature .
the Prime Minister of the Quebec has said that he has the intention of hold a other referendum when the conditions winners will consummate .
he is obvious that , in as that citizens responsible and that government federal responsible , we must answer to this statement .
this that the government move is simple and obvious .
he we responsibility of take the Prime Minister of the Quebec to the word .
if he keeps a other referendum , we must we ensure that he valid a question clear and that he understands well that he must obtain a majority clear before of power act .
I not see not how anyone to the Quebec or elsewhere to the Canada could if against to that .
the Prime Minister of the Quebec not has he not the intention of ask a question clear ?
has he the intention of act words ?
what is his objection to the fair ?
if I me recall well , the Prime Minister of the Quebec has praising this decision .
a of the elements basic of this decision is that the population of the Canada and the government of the Canada have a role to play .
personally , I d?testerais see the government if exempt to his role .
the Senator Rivest :
honourable senators , the Minister me evidence that the government Canadian has decided of act to this time - side because that the Prime Minister of the Quebec has said front hold a referendum .
why the very hon. Pierre Elliott Trudeau , after have heard Ren? L?vesque say , to the next of his election in 1976 , that he going hold a referendum on the sovereignty , not has he not decided of present , him who was wharfinger of the unity national , a bill of bill for determine the benchmarks of the question and of the majority ?
the very hon. Pierre Elliott Trudeau not was - he not also intending of the unity Canadian and of the protection of the interests of the together of the Canadians that the present Prime Minister of the Canada ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the Prime Minister Trudeau if concern enormous of the unity Canadian .
however , we hence in a situation where , apparently with the approval of the Prime Minister of the Quebec and certainly of his counterpart of the Canada , the Court Supreme has ?clairci this question as never that not if is fact in our history .
we not had not courtesy decision the last time ; we the have now .
if I me recall well , this is a decision who has received the endorse of the Prime Minister of the Quebec .
in his decision , the Court Supreme has established some criteria very age .
she give therefore to the government federal a opportunity reasonable of contextualize these questions in a perspective clear , then that we not we dealing not in full battle referendum .
in big , the government underscored on two points simple , but basic .
if a province whatever , and not only the Quebec , means if mixed of the Canada , he him must ask a question clear to his population and obtain a response clear .
that is true , that he if abhorrent of the Alberta , of the British - British or of the Nova - Nova and , certainly , nothing not needy be more reasonable .
however , the government federal not is not held of act if these conditions not are not respected .
the Senator Rivest :
honourable senators , I have a question Supplementary to ask .
the Minister could - he we quote the from of the judgment of the Court Supreme of the Canada who request to the Parliament Canadian of legislation ?
is - this that the judgment of the Court Supreme of the Canada , who said this that the Minister just of say , and I in putting welcome , has force of bill to the Canada ?
and why not not let Jean Charest and the Party Liberal of the Quebec delivering this battle and remind to the government of the Quebec in place that :
the bill of the country is stated in the decision of the Court Supreme of the Canada .
we not have not need of the bill of bill Mr. Dion .
the Senator Boudreau :
this is there a argument different , honourable senators .
if a human said that we not in have not need or that the time chosen for the present not agreeable not , she suggests then clear hear that he not there has not of disagreement .
the Court Supreme has indicated very clear that he there has of the factors whose he must hold account .
I me invoke a happy of back a copy of the decision of the Court Supreme to the hon. Senator .
the Senator Ghitter :
r?pondez to the question !
the Senator Boudreau :
this bill of bill shows that the two parties have of the responsibilities .
the government of the Canada has clear tenure his responsibility with the bill of bill .
the government federal has fact know his Position to the population of the country of a way very reasonable and has indicated the factors whose he if serve for determine if the conditions ensuing in the decision of the Court Supreme are respected .
these factors would strong useful for all citizen of not important what province Canadian who would to take a decision clear , if you him request of the take in the future .
the Court Supreme
the terminologie regarding the decision on the referred relatif to the referendum
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , to the during of the brief series of questions who has been raised until to now to this about , I have accounted that the Leader of the government to the Senate has used ten time the word to decision to in speaking of the notice given by the Court Supreme of the Canada .
to my notice , if we must deal of a question of a importance also crucial , we must be very cautiously and very precise in the way whose we employons the words .
the Minister not agreeable - he not that the referred presented by the government of the Canada to the Court Supreme sollicitait not not a decision , but rather a notice ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , as the said the hon. Senator , he if 13 of a referred and the Court Supreme of the Canada has given a notice , I in putting .
this is a notice who has been well welcomed to the then by the Prime Minister of the Quebec .
the transport
the Nova - Nova - Conformity commitment of the government federal of expand to four Means the road EH
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I like know when we going obtain these helicopters .
I like also know where the Minister of the Transport and the chairman of Onex are today today .
however , I thought that the Minister disorderly a small better the question next .
as the Minister the knows , he seems there have a some confusion in this who respect the commitments federal relatively to the assistance to contribute to the Nova - Nova for the Families to four Means of the road EH who facing the Valley of the Annapolis .
the Minister could - he clarify to the Senate what commitment has been took to the regard of our province to this regard ?
if he not has not a response immediate , he would can - be prepared to we convey a response written the more earlier possible .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I will certainly check deposited of the Minister of the Transport for know where in are the things .
I have attended recently to a meeting where this about has been spoken by the Minister and , except mistake , a Parliamentary of the other place who represents the region in question .
as the hon. Senator the knows by experience , the choice of the bills motor falls of the jurisdiction provincial .
the government provincial submit the priorities then request the appropriation federal .
the government federal funding in part these highways in service of the list of priorities established by the government provincial .
I believe that the Minister has indicated that he ?tudierait can - be a possible request filter of the government provincial .
in fact , some provisions special can be taken .
however , to my knowledge , no request of this kind not has been passed until to now .
I getting this deal under any contingency , because I not have not spoke to the Minister of that since a week and half .
the Finance
the distribution of appropriation to the payments of the Plan of Pension of the Canada in case of federalist of the wedding
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
a only of these five questions has never been clause in the release of press of the government and this was the decision of continue of seek of the means of if ensure that the appropriation to the payments of the CPP are divided to the following of the federalist of the wedding , as the bill the provides .
too often , that not if product not , even if this is required to the words of the bill .
you we said that the governments federal and provincial trying still of resolve this question .
nothing not has changed to the during of the two past years .
the Leader of the government could - he say to the Senate if the expression to examine the possibilit?x step a way ?l?gante of say to can - be that yes , can - be that not to ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not know not in what legislation the government and , more particularly , the Minister of the Finance , examine this question .
however , I happy very happy of me information and of provide a response to the Senator .
the Senator Oliver :
I thank the Leader of the government .
honourable senators , as the Minister the knows , the most of the delay live their past years in the poverty , after be demeur?es to the home during that their husband was on the market of the work , and they not receive no pension .
the Leader of the government could - he we provide of the information on two other points ?
first , could - he say to the Senate what is the state exactly of the business exploratoires and of the bill pilot requires ?
second , could - he we say why , two years more later , this problem not has always not been corrected , particularly for the women who have worked to the home , and not to the outside ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I if delighted of add these other requests of information .
the health
the possible of a regulation regarding the adding of caffeine to the drinks
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , a series of sections articles in The Ottawa Citizen doing state of a file on the caffeine who is currently to the study to Health Canada .
he if is of allow or not to the manufacturers of drinks Caffeine of add of the caffeine to of the drinks such that LaChance Dew .
this spring , the Senate has adopted to the unanimously a motion to this regard , and this series of sections raises of new questions .
I like in raise few - concerns .
first , the Leader of the government to the Senate can - he indication if , yes or not , the government keeping the motion of the Senate in not amend not the regulatory current who banned the adding of caffeine to the drinks Caffeine of agrumes as that you not is not course that the health of the Canadians , including the children and the young , not in commit not ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank the hon. Senator of his question .
to my knowledge , he not is not question in this time of amend the policy government to this regard , but I will me enqu?rir deposited of the Minister of the Health order of be to day in this file .
the request of a study on the effects of the caffeine
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , a report bill to the Minister , but we him have wrote a sure number of letters , in the sillage of this resolution , the enjoignant of not nothing do , of if settle of say not .
according the sections in question , of the senior officials of Health Canada have said that they not persons not of figures on the amount of caffeine that the Canadians ing?rent already in consommant of the drinks Caffeine , of the chocolat , of the tea and of the th? - of all sources .
they say not have more that two opportunities .
they can if proud to the data that their served the industry or develop the worse scenario .
I think that he there in has a third .
they can ask to Statistics Canada of their provide of the data of basic .
the hon. Minister could - he ask to the Minister of the Health of require the testimony of a source impartiale for determine if the health of the Canadians will compromised or not ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not know not to the fair if the hon. Senator request that the prerequisite found on the documented of Statistics Canada .
the Senator Spivak :
yes , order of establish the data of basic .
the Senator Boudreau :
in fact , I believe that you is in considering of define the information to ask .
I not know not to the fair where in are these business , but I will me information .
I will convey the request of the hon. Senator .
the Senator Spivak :
thank .
the behind in the publication of the report scientific
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , for more of precision , I attention that according a notice already The in Position Gazette of the Canada , the proposal of Pepsi - Cola would endorsed , but this notice add audacieusement that no study not has been made and that the objective Main introducing to harmonize LaChance Dew , by example , to the formula American .
as you the knows , a canette of LaChance Dew contains more of caffeine that several tasses of tea .
after have played to the hockey , the young , there including my grandchildren - children , not grab nothing of difficulty to take a boisson for sports such that LaChance Dew .
we going now their serve of good sharply of caffeine .
the caffeine is a psychotrope and should be ?tiquet?e in as that drug .
of any way , the report of the Committee of scientific who meets to the Minister party , except mistake , be concluded in July last .
the hon. Minister could - he check why , if this report party be concluded in July , he not has not still been realized public ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
I happy happy of me information on this other about to the behalf of the hon. Senator .
for this who is of the extension of his question , he must always establish a balance between the degree of regulatory of the activity human by the government and the freedom of choice .
I acknowledge the legitimacy of the concern of the hon. Senator , but I not think not that we are on the point of legislation order of ban to the miners the access to the Tim Horton .
the Senator Spivak :
honourable senators , I not can let move this note without answer .
we not are not in considering of adopt a legislation legislative .
we tried of protect our young children against the adding of a drug psychotrope to a product that they breakfast .
he there has several other things as that .
he not if is not of a regulation ; he if is of prevention in the interest of the health of the young children .
he not must not Smoking the two .
the Senator Boudreau :
I understand the point raised by the Senator .
however , as I the have underlined , he there has a fair balance to achieve .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , before of give the speak to the Senator Kinsella , I like highlight that this will the last question permise to the during of this period of questions .
the fisheries and the Oceans
the RCCs coastal - Changes bidding of croisi?re to the first ministers
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the been last , the shore Humphrey Gilbert of the RCCs coastal of the Canada has kidnappers the Prime Minister Tobin and the members of his cabinet in croisi?re the long of the coasts of Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
to payments of Minister policy of the Nova - Nova , the Minister is - he prepared to do of the arrangements of this kind for the Prime Minister Hamm and his colleagues to the during of the been next ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , not only will - I refuse the request of the Senator , but I wish to him ensure personally that I not take never this kind of initiative .
Questions delayed to of the questions Oral
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have a response to the question raised to the Senate the 24 November 99 by the Senator Oliver regarding the Purchase of major companies by of the businesses U.S. , a response to the questions raised to the Senate the 30 November 99 by the senators Spivak and Andreychuk regarding the Manitoba , the loss of data negotiates , the transfer of data personal and the principle of the consent for the security of the data personal , a response to a question raised to the Senate the 6 December 99 by the Senator Andreychuk regarding the failure of the discussions to the Organization World of the trade on the question of the grants agricultural of the States members and the assistance to the farmers Canadian , and finally a response to a question raised to the Senate the 8 December 99 by the Senator Kenny regarding the status of the Museum commemorative of the Holocaust .
the economy
the Purchase of major companies by of the businesses U.S. - Position policy of the government
( response to the question raised by the Donald H . Oliver the 24 November 99 )
certainly , the boondoggles of businesses Canadian by of the foreign have took of the magnitude these last time , but he should examine the phenomenon to more long term .
the investment direct Canadian to the abroad if are accrus more that the investment foreign to the Canada during the years 90 , to the point that , today today , the Canadians persons more of investment direct to the abroad that the foreign not in persons to the Canada .
the rate of change is a of the many factors who changes the foreign to invest to the Canada .
in fact , the increase recent of the boondoggles of businesses Canadian by of the foreign has co?ncid? with a raffermissement of the dollar Canadian .
in end of account , in a world where the you if fact competition for mobilizing of the $ of Investment , the Investment direct abroad to the Canada is a Gallery of confidence in our economy .
the investment direct
Canadian to the abroad
the investment foreign
direct to the Canada
billion of $
billion of $
98T1
8,1
7,8
98T2
6.3
Independence
98T3
14,9
8,3
98T4
10,2
4.7
99T1
4,5
three
election Canada
the Manitoba - Position loss of data negotiates - Conformity transfer of data personal - Conformity principle of the consent - Changes procedures of security regarding the data personal
( response to the questions raised by the hon. Mira Spivak and the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk the 30 November 99 )
the government if is committed to protect the information personal and , more particularly , to if ensure that the information relating to the persons ensure only used and released in Conformity with the bill .
election Canada sharing this commitment .
for inventory the records of the constituents , election Canada has asked the notice of good number of expert , whose those of the Commissariat to the protection of the life privacy of the Canada .
the held of the list election require of the information that election Canada receives of the government federal and of the governments provincial and territorial .
the sources governmental federal ( to know Revenue Canada and Citizenship and Immigration Canada ) not transmettent of information personal that with the consent of the involved .
for obtain this consent , Revenue Canada has expected , in the documented of statement of the income , a recommendations in which you evidence that the you hear to this that some information ( behalf , directed , date of birth ) ensure releases to election Canada .
the new Canadians can indication of the even way in their request of citizenship that they consent to the transfer of some information personal to election Canada .
election Canada has also concluded with the sources governmental provincial and land ( by example , the offices of the vehicle Motor and the offices of the state Civil ) of the agreements dealing the sending of information necessary to the implementation to day of the records of the constituents .
these agreements sending on the assumption that the provider is authorized to convey this kind of information .
the question of the consent is therefore determined by the laws in force in the provinces and territories .
the bill provides that the information Message to election Canada not can be used that to of the purposes electoral .
order of protect the information certainty in the records of the constituents , election Canada has , soon the creation of the records of the constituents , developed in place of the systems of monitoring complex ( by of the pr?pos?s or by of the means technical ) , and travelling of the procedures well document?es of treatment of the data .
by following of the loss of the bunch enclosing the information obtenue relatively to the semiconductors manitobains , election Canada has responsible a company of security independent of check all the aspects of his procedures in Equity of transfer on bunch magn?tique .
the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy of the Canada , Mr. Bruce Phillips , has borne his own inquiry .
he if is said of agreed on the findings of the audit .
to after study of the circumstances surrounding this incident , he not fact no doubt that the loss of the bunch is the result of a simple mistake human , has ?critM. Phillips .
I am satisfied that election Canada has took various measures for avoid a situation similar to the future , and I not believe not that he whatsoever grave of the recommendations additional for the moment . to
he is important of note that the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy therefore that the different sources appel?es to contributing to the implementation to day of the records of the constituents are habilit?es in all time to ask a review designed to if ensure that the provisions divesting the raising , the emmagasinage , the actualisation and the use of the data delivered to election Canada trap well the right to the life privacy of the constituents .
the trade international
the failure of the discussions to the Organization World of the trade - Changes grants agricultural of the States members - Conformity assistance to the farmers Canadian
( response to the question raised by the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk the 6 December 99 )
the government of the Canada is determined to favouring a system of handling and of transportation of the grain more strong and more effective and to increase the responsibility others the producers , who must also in benefit more .
the objective that the government if is set is of ensure to this that the producers norm of the changes Regional to the system of handling and of transportation in response to the recommendations of the Justice Estey and to the proposals Mr. Arthur Kroeger .
he important of highlight that the government of the Canada has always supported , all to the long of this process , that a attention particular party be granted to the need of do advantage the producers of the benefits of a system more commercial and more competitive .
the Minister of the Transport , the hon. David Collenette , has received the reports of the stakeholders and the recommendations Mr. Kroeger in September last .
the Minister of the Transport , of together with the Minister responsible of the Commission Canadian of the Wheat and the Minister of the Agriculture and of the Agroalimentaire , has undertaken of examine these reports in view of determine the better average of implanter a system of uniqueness more commercial .
the government chair carefully the report of the stakeholders and the recommendations Mr. Kroeger , of even that the results of the business on the questions related to the ports , to the distribution of the cars - tr?mies and to the model of the highways before of proceed to the implementation in implement of a together of reforms .
the heritage
the status of the Museum commemorative of the Holocaust
( response to the question raised by the hon. Colin Kennyle 8 December 99 )
the government is aware that to the enter of a new millennium , the Canadians and the delay must be research on the crimes committed against the humanity , as the Holocaust , and understand the lessons of the past .
or the government , or the Department of the Heritage Canadian , not if are incurred to create a Museum of the Holocaust .
following to the discussions regarding the needs in local of the Museum Canadian of the War , of the officials of the Department of the Heritage Canadian have asked , to the behalf of the Minister , to the Museum Canadian of the Civilization , of lead of the consultation order of determine the better way of Calgarians the Holocaust and the other g?nocides .
however , the calendar of these consultation not has not been established .
well that the government anthologies the importance of do know the crimes tragic committed against the humanity to the 20 century , his role in the comm?moration national of the Holocaust and of the other g?nocides not has not been determined .
Order OF orders
the Act of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
third Reading - Suspended of the debate
his Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the senators of adopt the motion ?
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , to first view , the bill of bill C - 4 is a bill of bill inoffensif , d?licieux even , who deserves the support Stan. of the two parties represented to the Senate .
this is a legislation who intended to put in implement the agreements international that the Canada has conclude on the cooperation Current to the CFTO spatiale .
all the world not can therefore that support the principle basic of the bill of bill .
extend - side has been adopted prestement to the other place after several p.m. of debate and a review by the Committee of the House of the Commons .
I support me also the principle of the bill of bill .
however , God or the devil knows this that we reserving the details .
I have looked a suddenly of helpful on the bill of bill a first time when he has been submitted to a review quick of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign .
before the hearings of the Committee , I have asked to the senior officials of the government why he was necessary of have the approval of the Parliament then that the improvements international could be implemented in implement on the only approval of the cabinet .
why ?
because that the agreed provides that the States members suitable that their legislation criminal if ?tende to the CFTO spatiale and to the prohibit to Entry and in originating of the CFTO spatiale .
honourable senators , I me r?f?re therefore to the section 11 of the bill of bill who severing the Code criminal and to the section 22 of the Agreement for excellent the ramifications of this application extraterritorial of our bill .
I have discovered that the States members incluaient the Union European , the States - United , the Canada , the Japan and the Russia , and that the laws p?nales of each of these States if apply .
the honourable senators if recall of the amendments that I had proposed to the bill of bill C - 40 , the Act on the extradition , seconded by my colleague the Senator Joyal , order of ?ter to the Minister of the Justice the power counterweight in the case of the requests of extradition revenues of States where the accused could be sentenced to the worthy of death .
the worthy capital has been lifted to the Canada he there has almost of three decades .
after a debate in good and properly form , these amendments had been adopted to the Senate .
the honourable senators if recall that the senators of this side - side of the House had followed the consignes of the whip of the Party .
the bill of bill C - 4 ressuscite the same questions who had fact the subject of the amendments adopted in the case of the bill therein C - 40 .
the Minister of the Justice Access the power counterweight of decide or not of obtain of the guarantees of a state not having not abolish the worthy capital who request the extradition , by example , of a Canadian continued for murder .
I have fact pointed the Position ingrate in which is developed the Minister of the Justice who must decide of a question of life or of death then that the bill Canadian is clear - more no condemnation to the worthy capital .
this power beware if applies now to the space atmosph?rique with the bill of bill C - 4 .
do a presumption .
suppose that a Canadian is accused of have committed a murder in the CFTO spatiale .
a Sum is also accused of have committed a murder in the CFTO spatiale .
the Canada and all the country members of the Union European have abolish the worthy capital .
the CFTO spatiale has been lanc?e to departure of the Texas , a state where the worthy capital not has not been lifted .
the Sum not could not be extrad? to the Texas , to least that this state not give to the country member of the Union European in question the guarantee that the worthy capital not will not implemented .
in advances , our Minister of the Justice would the power counterweight of decide or not of extrader the Canadian with or without guarantee that the worthy of death not will not implemented .
honourable senators , the Court Supreme has been cases of this question by the Edgar of the because Rafay and Burns whose we have spoke during our debate on the bill of bill C - 40 .
in this case , the Minister of the Justice was prepared to extrader toward the Texas two young Canadians of 18 years charged of crimes punissables of death without have the insurance that the worthy of death not would not implemented in their case .
that was contrary to the section 7 of the Charter of the rights I believe and some judges of the Court of appeal of the British - British were also of this notice .
the because fact now the subject of a appeal before the Court Supreme of the Canada who the has heard the 5 October 99 .
the week last , to the Committee of the Affairs foreign , of the officials we have said that , by a order enough unusual , the Court Supreme has asked of hear to new the plaidoiries .
by therefore , the question raised in the amendment that the Senate had wanted contribute retained to the bill of bill C - 40 , and who has been rejected to the Senate , is still to the study to the Court Supreme of the Canada , though in the context of the facts strong of this because in particular .
hence why I me am mistaken of participate to the study section by section to the Committee and hence also why I have the intention of not not participate to the study to the step of the report and to the third Reading .
why if alone to the held of present a other amendment ?
the officials we have said that the government has the intention of present the amendments documentation if the Court Supreme wants of limit the discretion of the Minister .
the Court Supreme should we enlighten very soon .
if the government is still press? of act to this time there , I me commitment officially to revising this legislation legislative if strange and if incoh?rente when the Court Supreme of the Canada if will executing .
I me abstiens and I forward the decision of the Court Supreme ; I hope that the government Glenney with haste for withdraw to the Minister of the Justice this discretion all to fact anachronique and unfair .
the hon. Serge Joyal :
honourable senators , the bill of bill C - 4 , Act of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil , me concern to the more senior point .
I am grateful to the Senator Grafstein of have brought this question to my attention then that I participais to the study of the bill therein S - 10 to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
the provisions ensuing to the section 11 of the bill therein C - 4 create of the respond on the power of the Minister of the Justice of Authorize the extradition of Criminal Canadian toward of the States where the worthy of death is investigator of be opportunity .
the section 11 of this bill of bill severing the section 7 of the Code criminal by the adding of new provisions having for effect of expand the application of the Code criminal to the CFTO spatiale international .
the new subsection ( 2.31 )
Edward Code criminal specific this who following :
he in result that the jurisdiction criminal of the Canada if spread now to the new CFTO spatiale international .
in addition , she if discriminates in cooperation with 14 other country in the framework of the agreed international divesting the CFTO spatiale .
by therefore , the 14 other States participating concur of the provisions similar in their right p?nal .
the section 11 of the bill of bill C - 4 raises specifically the even question of extension that the subsection 42 ( 2 ) of the bill of bill C - 40 presented during of the last session , to know the power counterweight of the Minister of the Justice of Appear the extradition there where the worthy of death is formed .
there still , the persons extrad?es of the Canada not benefit of no protection against the worthy of death .
as you you in recall , I have statement the principles basic under - revealed to my Position on the question essential of the worthy of death to the spring last , when the Senate has examined the bill of bill C - 40 , the bill on the extradition .
during the debate on the third Reading of this bill of bill , I have seconded a amendment proposed by the Senator Grafstein who would required that the Minister of the Justice consult a promise of the state requ?rant further to the fact that the worthy of death not would not inflig?e or that , if she the was , she not would not implementation to enforcement .
the worthy of death would rather chang?e in worthy of prison to life executing without possible of releasing naively .
he is , according me , totally incorrect and contrary to the clause of the section 7 of the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms of let the life or the death of a Canadian to the discretion of a Minister of the Crown .
these questions important are currently the about of the case Rafay and Burns , who has been heard this year to the Court Supreme of the Canada .
this case , as you you in recall , has relates to the decision of the hon. Allan Rock , C , Authorize the extradition of two citizens Canadian of 18 years toward a state of the States - United where they are inculp?s of murder and where they encourent the worthy of death .
in formulant his decision , Mr. Rock not has not sought to if ensure that the part poursuivante in this state not requ?rrait not the worthy of death .
the decision of laCour Supreme not has not still been decided , but the labourers judges have ordered that the case be of new entenduele 25 October 99 .
in the testimony that he has fact the Tuesday 7 December 99 before the Committee of the Affairs foreign , Mr. Yvan Roy , lawyer General of the 110 of the policy in Equity of right p?nal to the Department of the Justice , has explained that the power of a Minister of the Justice of Authorize the extradition continue of be a power counterweight full and without molestation and that he not is not att?nu? by the bill of bill C - 4 .
following this that has adjust Roy :
... the Minister of the Justice , who is responsible of the application of the Act on the extradition , can refuse of take a ascertain of postponed when the conduct to the regard of which you has presented the request of extradition fact the subject of prosecutions criminal to the Canada intent?es against this human .
Mr. . Roy has also recognized that the judgment realized in the case Burns and Rafay maze can - be the Minister to require of the assurance before of Authorize the extradition in of such case .
following this that he has said :
Mr. the chairman , you know that the Court Supreme of the Canada is currently cases of the question in the framework of the case Burns and Rafay .
he if can very well that you need contractual a other section of this legislation legislative , account held of this that the Court Supreme of the Canada will to say if the worthy of death could be opportunity in the country abroad .
of after the bill current , a such obligation not there not , but that become can - be the bill , of after this that each this judgment .
honourable senators , met given these circumstances , and account held of the principles that I have already , the spring last , presentations in detail in the account realized of the Senate on the question of the worthy of death , I not then , in any good conscience , vote in favour of the section 11 of the bill of bill C - 4 , who give effect to the agreed regarding the juridiction criminal shared on the Station spatiale international civil .
by therefore , I wish to do know officially that I have the intention of me alone of vote when the motion of third Reading of the bill of bill C - 4 will implementation to the Senators .
the hon. Lucie pin :
honourable senators , I give notice that I me refrain of vote on the bill of bill C - 4 , for the same reasons that those who have been data by the honourable senators Grafstein and Joyal .
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I not me bothersome not in this discussion raised by the senators Grafstein and Joyal .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I like ask your indulgence .
I note that he is 15 p.m. 29 , and we have agreed of return to this time - side to the notice of inquiry of the Senator Gauthier order that he can take the speak during 15 minutes .
I request therefore the leave of return to the notice of inquiry who is recorded to the behalf of the Senator Gauthier and who respect a report on the recent Summit of the Francophonie .
his Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators for allow of move the inquiry No. 1 ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Andreychuk :
I remind to the honourable senators that the Committee of the Affairs foreign has received the leave of sit now .
his Hon. the Speaker :
I am sorry , Senator Andreychuk , but the leave has been granted .
the Senator Andreychuk :
I want have of the instructions .
his Hon. the Speaker :
her the Senator point she the Rules ?
the Senate has authorized the Committee of the Affairs foreign to if meet to 15 p.m. 30 today today .
that important , I am prepared to CPAs the speak to the Senator Gauthier .
the Senate wish he that I particulars the speak to the about of this section of the Order of the day now or that I the particulars more later for power attend to the sitting of the Committee , whose I am a member having the right of vote ?
I must solve this ?nigme all the duration and Wednesdays .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I not am not course that the Senate can help the Senator Andreychuk .
this is his choice .
she is of any obviously free of attend to the sitting of the Committee since the Senate has authorized the Committee to sit in even time that him .
I will do in sort that her the Senator Andreychuk be avis?e when we reprendrons the debate on the bill of bill C - 4 , be in 15 minutes approximately , order that she can return for participate to the debate if such is his expressed .
the Senator Andreychuk :
I will ask to a of my colleagues of ask the adjournment of the debate in my behalf if I not am not here .
the Senator Hays :
as we hope debate the bill of bill C - 4 today today , I ask to the Senator Andreychuk of take the speak today today .
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , I am all to fact prepared to take the speak after the Senator Andreychuk , if she is the last human to take the speak on this section of the Order of the day .
the Senator Andreychuk :
I will ask the adjournment in my behalf and take the speak tomorrow .
the Senator Hays :
I like that we the hear today today .
the Senator Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I not had not the intention of hold a long speech on this question .
we have ample discussed of the worthy capital to the time of the study of the Act on the extradition .
I have fact clear know my opinion to this time - there , and I not have not changed of notice .
I have agreed that he was pressing of participate to the process of implementation in implement of the agreed on the CFTO spatiale .
in consequential , I believe that he not is not in the interest public and that this not is not a good practice Parliamentary that of expect the decision of the Court Supreme .
if the Court Supreme demands of other measures legislation , you if in looking in time and held .
for the hour , the bill is clear .
I the repeat , the question has been debated to the time of the study of the Act on the extradition .
I not have not changed of idea to this regard .
I want thank the Department of the Justice and the Committee for their excellent work relatively to the section 11 of the bill therein C - 4 .
he there had a problem with the version English and I believe understand that the version French if reads perfectly well .
we pass a bill criminal Canadian and the appliquons to the CFTO spatiale .
to the words of the definition of to crew determined of has Partner State to , the members of the crew are Treaty by our laws for a act or a omission who to determine committed you , gold respectively relationship further , has flight element provided by Canada gold damages has Canadian flight element to .
he not there has no definition of to Canadian flight element to in the bill of bill and the Department of the Justice has recognized that even if you d?finissait the expression to flight element to , to has flight element provided by Canada to not is not necessarily the even something that a to Canadian flight element to .
even if you seems cut the splitting in four for some , those who hand be Treaty by a bill criminal not partageront not this point of view .
we must be very age .
any human accus?e of a offence to the words of this bill deserves of the provisions specific .
I have been pleased that the Committee particulars my concerns in advisement .
the Department has indicated that in the next bill of bill of together , you will contribute of the clarification and folder a definition specific for that no human appearing before our courts not be typifies in the uncertainty .
I thank the Committee of that .
then that we we senator in the space and considerations a right p?nal extraterritorial , he is extremely important that we hurt precise .
I have been pleased that the government and the Department of the Justice quotes my point of view .
I will printed to this legislation legislative .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , for ensure to this that the account realized be exactly , the Senate had given the leave of hear the Senator Gauthier .
this question has been implementation to the study .
is - this that a other hon. Senator wish speak ?
the business of the Senate
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , when the Senator Andreychuk has asked the speak , the Senator Gauthier has agreed of speak after she for answer to his expressed of attend to a meeting of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign .
I believe understand that you if committed for that the Senator Gauthier talking now of the inquiry statement 1 placed in his behalf to the Order of the day .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , he is all to fact clear that we we are heard for interrupt the deliberations on the bill of bill who is to the hour current to the step of the third Reading for hear the Senator Gauthier on his inquiry .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted of move to the interpellations ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Summit of the Francophonie
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
leave having been granted of move to the inquiry statement 1 :
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier , having given notice the Wednesday 13 October 99 :
that he call the attention of the Senate on the recent Summit of the Francophonie who if is held to Moncton to the months of September last .
the Summit of the Francophonie who has had held to Moncton , to the New - Brunswick , to the beginning of the months of September omissions a Order of the day for the least responsible .
unfortunately , the failures of the rampe if are quickly affecting of the business that altering address the different leaders of States gathered for if braquer on the rendered or the legitimacy of the presence of some persons to the Summit .
as you the know , I have had the honour of chairman during of the two past years , the Assembly of the parliamentarians of the Francophonie .
I traiterai therefore someone little in my presented intervention of the role of the APF deposited of the summit , for then address the ?pineuse question of the legitimacy and of the ability of representation of a Leader of state who would soup?onn? of have legalistic some rights that we accurate to the Canada as basic and ?l?mentaires in any society free and democratic .
the Assembly Parliamentary of the Francophonie , as you the know , step a link asset between the representations of the Francophonie and the Communities francophones , since the Assembly limit of 47 sections to the within of the Parliaments , States and communities francophones and 12 sections 2.4 .
addition a important work of reflection and of cooperation Parliamentary , she involved to the implementation in place and to the strengthening of the institutions democratic and to the missions of observation of election .
during of the Summit of Maurice , to the months of October 1993 , after have r?affirm? the place imminente of the institution Parliamentary to the heart of the democracy fundamental and of the state of right of the summit , you has considered that the APF , only organization Parliamentary of the Francophonie , step the link democratic between the governments and the Peoples of the Francophonie .
in consequential , you has decided of recognize the APF as the Assembly consultative of the Francophonie , this that has confirmed the Charter of the Francophonie , agreed to Hanoi in November 1997 , who created , by elsewhere , the position of Secretary General of the Francophonie , served Mr. Boutros Boutros - summit , former - Secretary General of the UN .
for if put in Conformity with the Charter , the Assembly has decided , during of his session plain of Abidjan , in July 1998 , of adopt the behalf of Assembly Parliamentary of the Francophonie .
to payments of Assembly consultative of the Summit , the Assembly Parliamentary of the Francophonie has participated to the Summit of Moncton to the during wherein his new chairman , Mr. Nicolas Amougou Noma , Prime deputy - chairman of the Assembly general of the Cameroon , has fact a intervention before the leaders of state and of government .
to the during of his intervention , Mr. bannock Amougou Noma has including r?affirm? the commitment of the APF to the democracy Parliamentary , to the state of right therefore that his Opposition to any transmission of the power by the force of the weapons .
he has reminded the taken of Position of the APF against the children soldiers and in favour of the implementation in place quick of the future court criminal international .
the Assembly of the parliamentarians of the Francophonie support the decision taken during of the summit of create a observatoire of the democracy , that she has always called of all his wishes and referred she committed participate in Dolly the expertise of the parliamentarians .
the APF if pleased also of the reaction favourable vacancy to his bill of creation of a Parliament of the young francophones , to the implementation in place wherein she wish be closely associated .
she has noted with many of interest the statements of the Summit regarding the diversity linguistic in favour of which she if is involved drew .
in advances , she not can that if questions on the Submarine participating since several years of the number of members of the Francophonie , whose this not is not the vocation of become a second Organization of the Nations Nations not more that a second Commonwealth .
to the future , of new adh?sions must be conditionn?es by of the commitments regarding the use of the French in the framework of the relations international and of the education .
finally , the APF remind that she not account in his enough that the legislatures parliamentarians ?lues in the bare respect of the standards Constitutional of their country and that she has suspended those of his members who had unceasingly of meet this principle .
she not in has therefore that more of accuracy for exposing the campaign who like accused the Francophonie of complaisance particular to the regard of the plans dictatoriaux .
she timely his conviction of the need of a action permanent in favour of the democracy to the daily , of the type of similar that she fear currently , of the missions of observation of election , the training of the elected , the forums , the meetings regular for discuss how better act as Parliamentary in a country democratic .
to this about , the media have fact great state of the presence of a representative of the catalogued and of the Congo .
therefore , to my sense , they have brought proceeds to the business of the summit and entach? this fiscal if crucial to the vitality of the Francophonie international .
I have took the freedom of write to the Prime Minister Jean tien to this sujetle 24 August last .
in his response of the 31 August , the Prime Minister me fact share of the showing of the Canada , and I quote :
[ ... [ of meet his obligation to the place of the Francophonie , be allow to the representatives of all the country members of if meet to the Canada for ceVIIe Summit .
however , that not means plans that we cautionnons the abuses avid by some governments or individuals who could there participate .
I understand the Position of the Prime Minister , but I believe that he is great time of red?finir the ?ligibilit? of some leaders to participate to of the meetings of dispute international .
of elsewhere , to this about , the Minister of the Affairs foreign of the Canada , the hon. Lloyd Axworthy , illegality that the Canada was or would in favour of a right of meddling humanitarian .
you implementation therefore the principle of the above of the security human on any other activity , including even the development of the trade .
I me rallie to a such Position .
she base , to my sense , the opinion that I exprimais to the Prime Minister , to know that the rights of the man must have above on good number of customs and of practices in Equity of relations international .
I believe personally that he will soon possible of impose as condition sine qua not to a representation international legitimate the respect of the rights human for the country d?sirant participate to a conference international .
he if administration of a beware tool for show the seaway to some country r?calcitrants , to the even payments that the embargos commercial and the federalist of the links diplomatic .
I hope , honourable senators , that you occasionally following to this recommendation doing that the States who located participate to the organizations international must now meet the rights human in all time .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . )
the bill of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
third Reading
leave having been granted of return to the section 1 of the Affairs of the government :
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Stollery , seconded to the third Reading of the bill of bill C - 4 , Act Authorize implementation in implement of the Agreement concluded between the government of the Canada , the governments of States members of the Agency spatiale European , the government of the Japan , the government of the Federation of Russia and the government of the States - United of America on the cooperation Current to the Station spatiale international civil and Dolly of the changes related to of other laws .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , there has he a other hon. Senator who wishes speak in the debate on the motion Authorize third Reading of the bill of bill C - 4 ?
the hon. Peter A . Stollery :
honourable senators ...
his Hon. the Speaker :
if the hon. Senator takes the speak now , his speech instrument end to the debate in third Reading .
the Senator Stollery :
honourable senators , the Canadians are among the more great users of Technology spatiale and they live in a of the country the more cool to the world .
that if explain by a showing unfailing of expand the opportunities of our industry , of our researchers , of our astronautes and , by - above all , of the generations future of Canadians .
the bill of bill C - 4 intended essentially to allow to the Canada of go all the opportunities that offer the Station spatiale international .
the bill of bill is the instrument of Ratification of our contribution to this remarkable business spatiale , but he not is that a small not for the Canada in a bill who represents a not of g?ant for the humanity .
he not is that normal that a bill of a such scope and of a such settlement demands that the you d?finisse a system of management very complex .
the parties to the agreement , to know the Canada , the States - United , the Russia , the Japan and 11 country European , have undertaken of establish a framework of cooperation international in view of the conception detailed , of the development , of the exploitation and of the use , to of the purposes harshness , of a Station spatiale international civil habit?e in ongoing .
the agreed provides of the mechanisms and of the arrangements designed to if ensure that these objectives are refreshed .
juridiquement speaking , the bill of bill C - 4 highlights to enforcement the commitments that we have took in under of the protocol of agreement intergouvernemental in harmonisant the legislation Canadian with this agreed .
fact more important , the bill of bill C - 4 spread the application of the Code criminal of the Canada to the Canadians to board of the CFTO spatiale therefore that , in some circumstances , to the Criminal foreign .
the principle is the even that in the other applications extraterritoriales of the Code criminal of the Canada , by example on the plateformes of forage in sea .
in addition , the bill of bill C - 4 allows of we ensure that the government Canadian limit of the information essential for him allow of explicitly his obligations to the payments of the Agreement on the CFTO spatiale and that the information supplied are used exclusively to this end .
I like thank my colleagues , in particular , the members of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign for the exhibited interest that they have concern to the regard of this bill of bill and of the SSI .
in as that chairman of the Committee , I have been encouraged of see the attention that underline the members to this important step of the history of the Canada in the space .
during the hearings of the Committee , some points have been raised and debated , including of the questions Impediment to the codifies of conduct , to the juridiction and to the application extraterritorial .
I am happy of say that through to the expeditiously and to the effectiveness of the senators , we we are still rapproch?s of the Adopted of this bill of bill historic .
his Ratification capital the seaway to the Canada and , end , to all the partners participant to the program of the CFTO spatiale , in this who respect the exploitation and the use of the more great laboratory spatial of the world served in ongoing , and occasionally birth to a new era of exploration spatiale .
to the enter of the new century , the Canada is a Leader world in the field of the Technology spatiale , prepared to learn party of the opportunities that offered the economy represents on the know who is similar of the future .
the Canadians ?prouveront a great pride to complying , to in direct of the space to , the astronautes Canadian participant to this event grand of the history of the humanity .
he not fact no doubt that , in this beginning of new millennium , we we pr?parons also to repudiate the boundaries of our Alexander , to enable of important d?couvertes scientific , and to do of the progress technological innovative .
we not can even not imagine the d?couvertes the more important evidence of be made in the 25 to 50 next years .
imaginons how , he there has per years , were Softwood the progress scientific obviously since .
the th?ories r?volutionnaires on the Equity , the evolution and the thermodynamique of the years canoe have should department of a progress ahurissant .
yet , this not are not the strident who missing , whose the imagination not establishing not to follow the evolution quick of the science and of the Technology .
that he me be licences of remind to this about few anecdotes historic amusantes .
Charles H . Duell , steering of the Board of the patents to the States - United , had said in rifle that to all this who was to invent the had already been to .
in 1943 , Thomas Watson , chairman of IBM , would said to he there a market world for five computers all to the more to .
he not is not surprising that , in a statement of 1949 of the magazine Popular Mechanics , you gave predicted that to the computers of the future could not weigh that a tonne and half to .
by elsewhere , a note of service Economy of the Western Union , business American of telecommunications , stated that to the Technology of the telephone suggests too to wanting for be seriously contemplated as average of communication to .
Bell would - he could if imagine the way whose the lines phone have fishing our society and whose they are now used for commissioned of the detour with makers vid?os to of the destinataires multiple ?
according of the estimates , between 270 and 350 satellites of telecommunications will lanc?es of here 2007 in view of support the infrastructure World of the information in full growth whose the revenues doubleront of here the year 2005 .
grant to apparatus Lower of transmission of the Senators to of Bell has open the seaway to the Highway of the information that we know today today .
who would could if imagine that the industry Electronic in direct , also called trade Electronic , who not properly not to the end of 1993 disorderly before the end of 1995 a growth who him step of fundamental the even importance that the steel and the automobile to their then .
the community medical , through to the business wishes in the areas of the space , of the Science and of the Technology , if employ to eliminate completely some diseases and to find of the solutions to some other .
our community scientific , to the within of which the scientific Canadian of the space are the leaders of leadership , contributes to our understanding of the Alexander and of the effects of the r?chauffement overall of the atmosphere .
our community industrial , through to the industry spatiale Canadian , product of the revenues annual higher to 1.4 billion of $ , and creates of the jobs , of the hampered and of the expertise for a market world without constantly growing .
the courage of take of the risks and the perseverance on the seaway of the success under - tend each maltreatment and each Innovation .
in despite of the failure , each jalon must be perceived as doing part of the need acquiescence of the humanity of urge and of understand the unknown .
to the during of the 50 next years , he not there no way of know what small cornerstone retourn?e , even if he if is of a cornerstone on the surface of the planet Mars , annuity to a new Alexander of the Science .
Lover Graham Bell has already said this who following :
when a door if firm , a other if opens ; however , he we sometimes if often of draw during long and to regret the door closed that we not let not the other doors who if criticism before we .
the Station spatiale international civil not is that a of the doors who if criticism to the Canada .
she fact of the Canada a of the major partners in the adventure spatiale the more audacieuse never business in the history , all in allowing that the you convey appeal to of the scientific , of the astronautes , to the experiences and to the Technology of the Canada .
the Investment to long term the more remarkable in these partnerships is the creation of opportunities who wisely our young to recognize that they can them also play a role in the d?couvertes of the new millennium and to front there participate .
this is therefore with many of pride that I invite the honourable senators to support this jalon for the together of the Canadians and of the humanity in the areas of the exploration spatiale and of the Innovation technologique .
his Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill , read a third time , is adopted . )
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in Bill of conventions tax
third Reading - Adjourned of the debate
- honourable senators , I am pleased of take the speak today today to the step of the third Reading of the bill of bill S - 3 , Act of 99 for the implementation in Bill of conventions tax .
the bill of bill severing the convention tax between the Canada and the Japan , door the implementation in implement of new conventions with the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzb?kistan and the Syria , and Vo the convention in force with the Luxembourg .
the conventions simple by the bill of bill relieve a importance particular for the businesses and the citizens of the Canada who enjoyment of the activities in these country and there invest .
let - me of you airing the context in which if recorded the bill of bill .
the conventions tax have two great objectives : avoid the double tax and prevent the evasion in Equity of tax on the income .
you flavour therefore that the conventions tax have a impact sensitive on two of the priorities of the state , be , of a share , the promotion of the trade and of the investment , be , of other share , the equity tax .
the conventions tax if collected directly to the trade international of property and of services , and they linked of way tangible on the economy domestic .
must - he remind that the value of the exports of the Canada represents to the hour current more of 40 per of the GDP annual ?
in addition , the conventions tax contribute to the equity of the regime tax in securing that the Canadians not are not victims of a double tax , situation who can behold when a taxpayer ahead in a country , but commuting a income in a other country .
to defaults of conventions tax , the a and the other country could impose this income .
among the solutions possible to this problem , the country of residence can removing this income of tax or give a credit in under of a convention tax to the payments of the tax paid to the country where the income has been win .
the country responsible can also subtly of reduce the rate of restraint to the purposes of tax .
in effect , the country indiscriminately in General of the deduction to the payments of the tax on the income paid to the not - residents .
in the absence of convention tax or of a other form of exemption portion by the bill , the rate of restraint commencing by the Canada on the income of the not - residents is of 25 per .
the conventions tax simple by the bill of bill S - 3 indiscriminately of the rate of restraint reduced including to the regard of the dividends , interests and royalties for the Canadians Work of the activities in the country in question .
let - me you give few Particulars .
the rate maximum of restraint of tax on the dividends received by of the businesses holding to the least 10 per of the rights of vote of the society versant the dividends will of 5 per to the words of the conventions with the Luxembourg , the Lebanon and the Ouzb?kistan , and of 10 per to the words of the convention with the Bulgaria and the Syria .
in under of our convention with the Portugal , a business must evidence to the least 25 per of the rights of vote of a society for be schemes to the rate of restraint maximum of 10 per on the dividends .
the conventions with the Algeria and the Kirghizistan indiscriminately a rate of win maximum of 15 per on all the dividends .
in the case of the interests , the rate of restraint minimum is de10p. per pursuant to the conventions with the Bulgaria , the Luxembourg , the Syria , the Ouzb?kistan , the Lebanon and the Portugal , and of 15 per in application of the conventions with the Algeria and the Kirghizistan .
a exemption is portion in some case to the regard of the interests , by example those that collected some types of borrowing of the state .
a restraint maximale of 10 per to the payments of the tax will implemented on the royalties to the words of our conventions with the Bulgaria , the Luxembourg , the Syria , the Ouzb?kistan , the Kirghizistan and the Portugal .
the rate accomplishing expected by the convention with the Algeria , always to the regard of the royalties , will of 15 per .
also , some conventions complainants a clause of exemption or apply a rate maximum of restraint de5p. per on the royalties applicable to the rights of author , to the software and to the patents and know - do .
the protocol concluded with the Japan door the reduction of the deduction applicable to the dividends interentreprises , whose the rate maximum is brought to 5 per and exon?re the companies Canadian who Distinguished of the ships or of the aircraft in the field of the transportation international of the taxes of the businesses modern to the wide local to the Japan .
the provinces Canadian overwhelmingly already this exemption of courtesy to the businesses Japanese who separate of such activities to the Canada .
met given that the most of the conventions signed by the Canada , there including those with the Ouzb?kistan , the Bulgaria , the Algeria and the Kirghizistan , have been n?goci?es before the announcement of these rules , a clause has been incorpor?e to the rules ensured on the migration of the taxpayers order that the Canada can give unilaterally a credit for tax abroad to the ?migrants and this , until in 2007 .
this approach avoids all risk of double tax of the gains earned before the departure of the ?migrants , of here to this that the conventions in question shifted been ren?goci?es of manner to be substandard to the new rules .
the even clause if applies in the case of the Japan , who has asked that this question be consideration during of the next negotiations .
I like finally answer to the concerns address by few honourable senators further to the convention of double tax with the Ouzb?kistan to because of the practices of this country in Equity of rights of the human .
these values find their incarnation in our institutions and practices democratic , in the commissions federal and provincial of the rights of the human , in the Charter of the rights and freedoms , and in our traditions of peace , of Order and of good government .
the approach of the Canada in Equity of rights of the human since 1986 , without regard to the changes of government , is the commitment and the dialogue .
the Canada is of notice that the institution of a dialogue to several levels with the country who we causent of the concerns in Equity of rights of the human is a average effective of promote the transparency , the respect of the rights of the human and the symbolic to the rule of right .
our policy if seen before all of the pragmatism , a pragmatism encadr? by of the principles , to the average wherein we we effor?ons of define the measures concrete who fairer on a change positive and real in the country in because .
the measures that we take vary inevitably according the country , according the degree of showing of discuss with the Canada of questions dealing the rights of the human , the scope of our influence on this country or on his region , the number and the force of the NGOs who there oeuvrent in favour of the rights of the human , and in service of all a range of other factors .
in the case of the Ouzb?kistan , that this be to the level bilateral or multilateral , the Canada commitment this country to / of the reforms economic and democratic and to better meet the rights of the human .
to the level multilateral , the Ouzb?kistan has acc?d? in 1994 and 1995 to six treaties important of the Nations Nations on the rights of the human , this who allows to the Canada and to the other States members of the Nations Nations of check if the Ouzb?kistan satisfy to his obligations to the words of these treaties .
this country has , in addition , signed the Act final of Helsinki , of sort that he is now member of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe .
the Canada support the programs of monitoring and of democratization of the OSCE in this country .
this is to this payments that the CIDA has sponsored the participation of representatives of organizations ouzb?kes of Defence of the rights of the human to a great conference of the OSCE on this question , held to Warsaw in 1998 .
by elsewhere , the Agency Canadian of development international confer his support to a sure number of bills ouzb?kes in the field of the rights of the human , including the preparedness and the distribution of a brochure on the Declaration Universal of the rights of the man by the Centre national of the rights of the human of Ouzb?kistan .
by following of the d?ment?lement of the Union Soviet , he has should negotiate of new agreements with the States , such the Ouzb?kistan , who not doing not part of the States successors related by the convention of double tax reached with the former - Union Soviet .
the Canada has undertaken of the negotiations in 1995 , in reason of the interest that showing the businesses Canadian for this market , including for the sector of the resources natural .
the Ouzb?kistan is a of the more great country producers of gold to the world .
to this day , well that the trade of the Canada with the Ouzb?kistan if av?rent modest , the businesses Canadian continue of if interest to of the sectors such that the exploitation mining , the telecommunications and , all recently , the education , in particular the creation of schools of studies trade in Ouzb?kistan and the reform of the system of education .
the negotiating of a convention of double tax with the Ouzb?kistan is consistent to the showing of the Canada of facilitate the from of a economy governed to a economy of market and of promote the development democratic in the new States independent of the former - Union Soviet .
of the instruments legal as the convention contribute to promote the transparency , the predictability and the respect of the rule of the right in our relations economic bilateral .
honourable senators , the Canada continue of if Services in a dialogue with the Ouzb?kistan of way to encourage this country to improve his practices in Equity of development democratic , of respect of the rights of the human and of reform economic .
however , he is difficult of if implanter on the markets of the former - Union Soviet and that require a preparedness of long manfully .
the instruments legal who help to the do , such the convention of double tax , consistent in of the agreements - managers who guarding the int?rets of the Canadians and of the businesses Canadian .
when these past choose of expand their activities to of the markets difficult as extend of the Ouzb?kistan , these instruments have for advantage of clarification the rules and of improve the predictability .
before of complete , I issues two other points .
please of first , honourable senators , that when the provisions of a convention tax different of those CTAISB in the Act of the tax on the income , the convention tax premium of way to guarantee that the objectives that I have whereas more earlier ensure achieved .
honourable senators , the Elimination of the double tax on the plan of the operations trade dealing the country Treaty by this bill of bill not can that be to the advantage of the traders and of the investors Canadian who there doing case , and promote of the even suddenly of the relations international harmonieuses and of the trade commercial reinforce .
to the hour current , the Canada has concluded of the conventions tax with 67 country .
this figure montera to 74 a time that the conventions simple by this bill of bill enhanced in force , this who will in the sense of the objective of the Canada of expand his system of conventions tax international .
honourable senators , I you request therefore urge of adopt quickly this bill of bill .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the Senator would loved , she also , if deal on this bill of bill , but she has should if pay to the meeting of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign .
I move the adjournment of the debate in his behalf , and I am that she in involving a word tomorrow .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , as the end of the year approach to not of g?ants , could - I ask to the Senator Kinsella if of other members of the Opposition wish take the speak on the section in more of the Senator Andreychuk ?
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
I believe that we are the two only senators who wish take the speak .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , to the behalf of the Senator Andreychuk , the debate is adjourned . )
the speech of the seated
motion of Adopted of the directed in response
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Vodrey , seconded by the hon. Senator Furey , seconded to the Adopted of a Adresse to His Excellency the Gouverneure general in response to the speech that contemporaries has sir during of the openness of the second session of the 30 - sixth Parliament . - (
8e day of the resuming of the debate ) .
the hon. Marjory LeBreton :
honourable senators , I am pleased of participate to the debate on the speech of the Throne , even if I sharing the notice of the most of the observers and commentators , to know that the speech of the Throne is d?pourvu of vision and not we news not great - something on the intentions of the government .
I not have that a something to say to this about :
that me brings to the heart of my speech : the management economic , without Opposition no , pratiqu?e by the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister in Awaiting .
following how the cabinet of the Prime Minister pretends the speech of the Throne :
grant era of the growth effr?n?e of the deficits and of the debt public is behind we - for of good .
we have presented of the Budgets balanced for two million financial All - this who not if was not seen since 1951 - 1952 .
the ratio of the debt to the GDP falling constantly .
as they not are not doctors , the makers of image and of propaganda of the government are always devote apparently to do believe to the Canadians that the government precedent was responsible of this situation .
they have d?form? the facts .
I am well balancing , honourable senators , that the only words who carry describe this tactique would viewed unparliamentary .
the government has presented under a false day all the initiatives of the former government Progressive - Conservative of Brian Mulroney : the free - Exchange , the GST , the privatization and the deregulation , the expanded of the airport Pearson , and the Purchase of helicopters , for not mention that those - there .
as he has adopted systematically all these political that he had d?nonc?es , why the suggests you argue that he has to inherited of a mess to , for use the words of the Prime Minister ?
what are the facts ?
honourable senators , to the fall of 1993 , the deficit if were to 37,5 billion of $ .
the Liberal are upon to the power in November 1993 , and if are then raced of add all the Estimates imaginables to this figure for the increase the more possible before the end of the fiscal 1993 - 1994 , who if is concluded in March 1994 . scrap have had five months for accomplish their work .
they cried the figure sp?culatif of 44 to 46 billion of $ little after their arrived to the power , hoping that he limbo ancr? in the spirit of the population , this who if is product , unfortunately .
after well of the efforts , they have succeeded to do grimper the figure of the deficit to 42 billion of $ .
their purpose was clear : achieve a figure higher to extend of 38 billion of $ , be the deficit who properly when the government Progressive Conservative has been formed in 1984 .
how if there are - they took ?
they have added to the registres of the Estimates who were in fact ensuing for the years to come .
in fact , honourable senators , three of the amounts subscribed not have not been fellows extending March 1993 , even if they had been enrolled to the registres for the fiscal 1993 - 1994 .
the Auditor General has denounced this practice , but the government if in moquait .
the Liberal had need of a some given for their program policy .
they were prepared to accept the criticism negative of the media during a day or two for enable their program policy .
why not the number - they not fact ?
they not were face to no Opposition to the Parliament and , to the then , they b?n?ficiaient of the support of media accommodants , even often serviles .
the parties of Opposition , the Bloc and the Party Reform , wanted more destroy the Party Progressive - Conservative that require of the accountability of the government .
the Party Liberal has therefore perp?tu? a myth whose he has fact a reality and whose the members continue still of record , as the phoques labourers that they are .
as you knows their false representations in all the other areas , he is surprising that you not the gave not left in question to this regard also .
for invent of the stories , they are very strong .
I suppose that , for a Liberal , this is wonderful .
that the commit for captured this myth .
since the Liberal or those who doing their apologie not have never held many to the principle of the equity - all is fine in love , to the War and in policy , said - you - accept that as a sad reality who , be said in way , not fact that thrust the sad opinion that has the population of the policy and of the politicians .
regardons the case under a other contempt , honourable senators , be in doing equally the torts to unconventional , and hope that that help to do understand the situation to all the observers of the scene policy .
this is exactly this that I hear do : unconventional the facts .
in 1984 , the situation whose h?ritait the new government Progressive - Conservative was monster .
the Leader Liberal of the Ontario , David Peterson , had said to the then : to Brian Mulroney h?rite of a devastating mess . to
the deputy - Prime Minister and Secretary of state to the Affairs External outgoing , Jean tien , had said , with a plain unusual that he not has never benchers since : to We let the Access - eat vacuum . to
in October last , Michael Bliss , in a chronic entitled : to Trudeau to 80 years - a peerage heritage to , has wrote this who following :
the failure of the government Trudeau to the regard of the policy economic was if full that even the devastation have Osteoporo .
who , to share the arch?ologues of the history , if recalls of the Agency of review of the Investment abroad , of the guideline of the Program Energy national and of the controls of the salaries and of the price ?
who if in soucie ?
he has continued of the way next :
even when Pierre Trudeau was to the power , the failure of the attempts of the Liberal for that the economy Canadian be governed by the state was became applaud .
the concept of planning , of collectivisme and of progress by the ?tatisation on the model of the socialistes if are effondr?es to the Canada and in the world around , all as the socialisme him - even .
all this who former of the economy Liberal of the years Trudeau , this was a terrible montagne of debts and a regime of tax oppressif .
the government tien has tried of if detract totally of this aspect of the heritage Mr. Trudeau .
honourable senators , the fact is that the intervention of the government in the economy and in our lives was to his apog?e .
the regulations ?dict?s by the government and the chinoiseries administrative were to the Order of the day , and the Estimates governmental 578 of the levels records .
we had a inflation to two figures and of the political d?bilitantes such that the NEP and the AEIE .
the Auditor General of the then has pointed with justesse that the government of the Canada and the Parliament had to lost the control of the Finance public to .
the Estimates for the programs had increased of more of 14p. per by year during 15 years .
the deficit federal was past of almost of zero to 38 billion of $ , and the debt federal had increased of more of 1000p. per , some of the increases the more important met observed to the then where Jean tien was Minister of the Finance .
in 1984 , in as that new government , we have had the job task of change the things and the attitudes .
we were profoundly to we atteler to the task .
we believed that we find that to the Canadians who we had elected .
as he is said in a study university :
the consequences to long term [ ... [
Peoples political economic of Trudeau ,
[ ... [ - the inflation galopante , the dollar in dropping free , of the rate of interest records and a unemployment in increase - Ministry of seriously problems to the Prime Minister Mulroney and he has onerous long for there rectify .
he not fact no doubt that he needed that the Canada renverse the steamship and welcomes to of the reforms deep .
what have been the results ?
if you excludes the service of the debt , he not there had more of deficit government in 1990 .
that in is - he of the deficit whose we differ constantly speak to the other place and in the population ?
the truth , this is that , as all observer of the scene financial the knows , the only legislation real of the importance of a deficit , this is the percentage of the GDP that he represents .
that is recognized even in the book Red of sad memory .
you there playing the standard that the Union European limited to his members who wanted adh?rer to the treaty of Maastricht , be a deficit equivalent to 3 per of the GDP .
what are the facts ?
expressed in percentage of the GDP , the deficit federal has been virtually reduced of half by the government precedent , way of 4.6 per in 1984 to 8.7 per in 1990 - 1991 .
then , we have been coalesces by a recession World who has a little grug? the gains for do predated the deficit to 5,8p. per of the GDP in 1993 - 1994 .
in despite of the recession , the deficit was to the end of our mandate of almost of three points of percentage Lower to this that he was when we are upon to the power , even after the ajouts facts by the Liberal to the during of the five last months of the year financial .
he is ind?niable that we have left the Finance public in a well better state in 1993 that when we are upon to the power in 1984 .
as a analyste of the Council private the has pointed - and he is interesting of note that this analyste is today today to the Senate , home our friends of in opposite :
[ ... [ all the deficits and all the increases of the debt national were occurred to the interest on the debt who properly before that ...
our
... government not sometimes to the power .
what other measures taken by the government have contributed to the state present of our economy ?
the abolition of the Agency of review of the Investment abroad .
in the sector Energy , by example , the Program Energy national , who has cost of the billion of $ to the economy of the Alberta and has destroyed the industry oil has been abolish , of even that the tax on the income p?troliers .
the government has privatized or dissous 39 companies of state and of other companies of portfolios similar .
a legislation legislative has been agreed and of the measures administrative have been taken order of eliminate or of fusionner 41 agencies , boards and commissions .
these measures , conjugu?es to the oriented of the operations , have fact that 90 100,000 positions have been supprim?s .
of Teleglobe to Air Canada , in way by FIRA and P?tro - Canada , of new companies private are valour for do the competition and if expand on a market world of more in more requiring .
FIRA and De Canadair were to the time of their sales to Bombardier of the gouffres without funds in capably you consequent of the money .
today today , FIRA is a success in the industry Canadian , with the sales of the Challenger , of the flying of transportation regional to reactions and of the Global Express .
the free - Exchange with the States - United and the NAFTA have been and are to the heart of many of our accomplishments .
the Opposition , particularly similar of the Liberal , has been extremely hysterical .
you has diabolis?M. Mulroney and left in question our patriotism .
he is now clear that we have chosen the good seaway for the Canada .
only the Liberal could printed to these political without broncher ?
you seems have widely forgotten now that the Liberal if are contrary with vehemence to the Agreement of free - Exchange with the States - United and to the NAFTA who predecessor the Mexico for the accept then without contingency when they are upon to the power .
in 1988 , the last year before the implementation in implement of the Agreement of free - Exchange between the Canada and the States - United , our exports of goods toward the States - United if are high to EH billion of $ .
honourable senators , he has onerous 120 years to departure of the Confederation for that our exports toward the States - United conforming per billion of $ .
he not has onerous that ten years in the framework of the free - Exchange for overtake the 250 billion of $ .
among the calamit?s who altering if abattre on we according the Liberal to the following of the conclusion of the Agreement of free - Exchange , he there had the disappearing of the insurance - illness , of the development regional and of our institutions cultural .
without the free - Exchange , our economy would could strong well stagner to the during of the years 90 .
that not means not say that all that not has not been realized without inaction or factionalism .
as the Council Canadian of the leaders of businesses the has said :
our exports have been the star the more proceed in the galaxie Canadian .
he is fair of say without definitive that the free - Exchange is a success remarkable .
who could never forget all the chahut that he there has had in this chamber ?
in fact , he would very difficult of find a precedent in any our history .
during the election of 1993 , the Liberal have promised of abolish this tax and of the replace .
the Canadians have voted in great number in quarter that this would the case .
six years more later , this tax is always there .
why ?
the response is obvious .
you has poses that he if is of a tax original visible and step of the point of view social .
that if is also valve beneficial for our economy , particularly to the level of the exports , and the government in has learned of the revenues important .
the former tax of 13.5 per on the sales of the manufacturers that we have lifted component a tax seeing nuisible to the exports .
the Agreement of free - Exchange between the Canada and the States - United , the NAFTA , the GST , the privatization , the deregulation , the abolition of the Program Energy national and the Alternative of the Agency of review of the Investment abroad by Investissement Canada are all of the measures doing part of the restructuring and of the modernization of the economy Canadian .
of a point of view tax , the reduction of the deficit and the restructuring of the government have began soon 1984 , and not in 1994 as some persons trying of the do believe .
his Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator LeBreton , I have the regret of you interrupt , but your time of speak is expired .
the Senator LeBreton :
honourable senators , me donnez - you the leave of continue ?
his Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator LeBreton :
all these courageuses political have two makes in common .
this is a government Conservative who the has adopted and the Liberal the have all combattues , voting against each of they .
when the government Mulroney has left the power in June 1993 , he there had 1.4 million of jobs of more that in September 1984 .
the rate plus was of 6 forced , the level the more low in 20 years .
the rate of inflation was of 1.5 per , the rate the more low in 30 years .
the Nations Nations scattering of declare that the Canada agency the Prime rank to the world for this who is of the quality of the life .
but this who important still more , honourable senators , this is that the attitudes have changed .
through to our efforts , the Canadians have including the importance of the reduction of the deficit , this that they not were not loans to do he there has ten years .
he there has few years , the professors Thomas Velk and A . R . Riggs of the University McGill , codirecteurs of the program of the studies North - U.S. to McGill , have dependent the performance economic of the Canada under all the first ministers since the Second War World .
these experts of the economy have compar? the results regarding the unemployment , the inflation , the growth , the rate of interest , the value of the dollar , the distribution of the income , the deficit and the rate of tax .
to what conclusion in are - they upon ?
I quote directly of their study .
the record objective of Mulroney - further to the figures on the performance real of the economy Canadian - is the better of the 35 past years .
as I the have said to the beginning , all these facts ind?niables if are perdus in the turbulence of the misinformation and of the tampering of the truth of the share of the achievement equipment of propaganda called Conformity Party Liberal of the Canada .
the consultants in Communications of the Liberal and their friends l?che - boots in the media say now to the country to what point the government present has courageusement eliminated the deficit , redress? the economy and saved the country .
jean tien and Paul Martin have already borne their aur?ole .
this argument go around of the allegation according which the new government Liberal had inherited in 1993 of a situation economic and budget extremely bad .
during of a debate Maritimes to the during of the campaign election of 1997 , Mr. tien has even spoke of the to situation monster to whose he had inherited .
Mr. . tien completely can - be a other of his fameuses conversations with the without - homeless .
he not had course inherited of nothing of such .
the work preparatory had been fact for a strong resuming economic represents on the exports .
our political have fall a change structurel deep to the Canada , on the plan of the taxes , of the inflation and of the trade commercial .
they were impopulaires , but necessary .
honourable senators , the Canadians should with reason if outlining of these results , but recognize - in the deserves , of the least in part , to who he works .
as the former Prime Minister Brian Mulroney the has said a day , the ministers of the Finance Michael Wilson and Don Mazankowski have planted the bedrooms and Paul Martin in cueille the choirs .
in as that CIBC , I me delighted of these results and I not rechigne not to recognize Mr. Martin all the deserves who him works .
we all who sit currently to the Parliament have in effect the fortunate of see of the political ?prement controversial produce finally of the results benefit who internship the fabric social of our country .
honourable senators , we have said to the Canadians the truth that they altering know to the about of the free - Exchange , of the NAFTA , of the GST , of the reduction of the deficit , of the low inflation , of the airport Pearson , of the Purchase of the helicopters and we have even believed in this old tradition Parliamentary that is the responsibility brief .
our political economic have been strong controversial in of many sector , but we have reiterated numerous and numerous time that if they were adopted and implemented in application on a long period , the Canada would a nation turned .
the deficit would eliminated , the exports conna?traient a growth upwards and the well - be economic of the Canadians and of the members of their families would am?lior?s in a climate not inflationniste .
we not have not promised the perfect ; we have all simply said that he there would of the progress important .
I am very proud that my colleagues and me of this side - side of the House news contributed and continue of contributing widely to this progress important .
of the Senators :
hear !
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , if the hon. Senator Vodrey takes now the speak , his speech will for effect of closing the debate on the motion .
the hon. Richard H . Vodrey :
in his Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne , the Senator Furey we has fact advantage of his own perspective outcome of the limit is of our country therefore that of his experience personal .
since this time , of many senators have participated to the debate and have fact argue a vast range of ideas .
this is a debate who if is defenders according the best traditions of this chamber .
in my directed , I have fact the comments following :
he responsibility to the government of listen carefully all the world , of lead his own studies and Evaluations and , in across of bobsleds , of determine a plan of action .
this is on the faith of this plan of action and of his effectiveness to the put in implement that the government will felt .
more important still , this is of the quality of these decisions and of the measures adopted by the government that d?pendront the future and the well - be of the Canada and of the Canadians .
honourable senators , the government has heard now our Senators and has the advantage of power rely on our advice .
that met said , if he not there has not of other speakers , I am happy of supporter this motion to my behalf .
( the motion is agreed with division and the Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne is agreed . )
( on the motion of the hon. Senator Hays , he is ordered that the Adresse be grossoy?e and introduced to His Excellency the Gouverneure general by His Hon. the Speaker . )
the speech of the seated
the Adresse in response - Motion seconded to the end of the debate the eighteenth day of sitting - Withdrawn of the section
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Hays , seconded by the hon. Senator Mercier :
that the deliberations to the Order of the day for the resuming of the debate on the motion seconded to the Adopted of a Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne , sir by His Excellency the Gouverneure general before the Houses of the government , if remission the eighteenth day of sitting where the Order will been debated ;
and on the motion of adjournment of the hon. Senator Kinsella , seconded by the hon. DeWare , that the motion not be not now agreed but that she be amended in deleting the word to eighteenth to and in the replacement by the word to fourteenth to .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I request that the motion No. 2 , under to Affairs of the government to , be ray?e of the Order of the day , since she not is more valid .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , we must of first obtain the consent of the author of the amendment , seen that the motion is currently to the study .
the author of the amendment wish he withdraw the motion ?
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
his Hon. the Speaker :
the hon. Senator Kinsella request that his amendment be withdrawn .
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the hon. Senator Hays request that his motion be withdrawn .
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the section is withdrawn . )
the Act on the snitch in the service public
second Reading - adjournment of the debate
essentially , the bill of bill S - 13 if recorded in the right over of the values and of the Ethics of the service public federal .
the bill of bill if directed to the service public professional and modern that we have the fortunate of have to the Canada .
in fact , I am of notice that the service public of the Canada not has not his equal in the world .
a report entitled : to De solid weakened to examine the values and the Ethics in the service public .
he if is of the report of a group of work developed in place by the Clerk of the Council private he there has few years already and chaired by the late John Tait , a former colleague of the under - Minister of the Justice .
this report had for subject of help the service public to reflect and , in some case , to red?couvrir and understand his values fundamental , and finally to renew his commitment to their regard in all the aspects of his work .
I recommends the Reading of this publication to the hon. Senator .
some of the questions and problems identified as concerns of the officials Canadian rely the evolution of the conventions on the accountability ; the conflict between the ancient and the new values ; the challenges of Order d?ontologique that duplication the new services and the new approaches in Equity of management in the service public ; and the leadership and the management of the resources human in this then of great changes .
the bill of bill S - 13 attempts of show the need of provide a framework for resolve the question of the protection of the d?nonciateurs in the new context of the Ethics and of the values as touchstone important of our service public Canadian .
the framework Use to resolve the question of the protection of the d?nonciateurs expected in the bill of bill S - 13 is based on the regime d?ontologique who , very frankly and fortunately , is of more in more fr?quent in our service public .
as that is indicated to the page 54 of the report Tait , a regime d?ontologique :
more far , to the page 55 , the report Tait fact complying this who following :
the a of the elements of the regime d?ontologique referred we pocket give a importance particular is the implementation in place to the within of the agencies of the service public of mechanisms of Order documentation , therefore that of counsel , or of Protective of the officials , when those - side feel that them - same or of other could if find in a situation of conflict of interests , that they doing opposite to of the difficulties of Order d?ontologique , have the sense that you discriminates of the pressure on them , or that you their request of take of the measures contrary to the Ethics , to the values of the service public or to the interest public .
the officials we have said several time that he is needless of their ask of preserve the values of the service public or of the standards high in Equity of Ethics , if you not their provides not the tools for the do .
the a of these tools essential is a human accessible to who they carry if contact , in any confidence , for obtain of the advice , express of the concern to the about of instructions showed , or attention a serious derogation to the Code d?ontologique of the service public .
a such human must have the rotunda , the self and the authority necessary for exercise effectively his duties and protect the identity and the position of those who have Order to his services .
he must put in place of the mechanisms substandard to the values of the service public who created to the officials of express their concerns to the regard of measures affiliated ill?gales , contrary to the Ethics or exceeded with the values of the service public , and of give following to their concern of way fair and impartiale .
honourable senators , the bill of bill S - 13 intended to give following to the desire expressed by the service public she - even , to know extend of offer a service of first quality .
the structure of the bill of bill speaks on four pillars .
he if is , as Prime pillar , of ensure , to the level of the under - branch , a management of the departments and of the agencies who be consistent to the Ethics and who be based on of the values , of such sort that the managers and , to the across of the account , the Minister relevant him - even , involved to the resolution of the problems .
the second pillar respect the cooperation r?ciproque and the need of serve the interest public .
the third pillar introducing to include a average of deal the allegations of conduites reprehensible , of way to meet the interest public and to d?charger the officials d?nonciateurs of the obligation stressante of if office of the case of conduites reprehensible in demonstrated those - side to the a of the three commissioners of the Commission of the service public of the Canada .
the fourth pillar of the bill of bill ahead in the protection of the d?nonciateurs .
the bill of bill S - 13 includes therefore of the provisions emp?chant the measures of reprisal .
the model , honourable senators , first , protects the interest public in General ; second , contributes the service public in as that institution of first category ; third , provides the parliamentary of accountability and the research of solutions to the level of the under - branch ; and , fourth , protects the officials .
the notwithstanding 2 has ) provides that you underscored on the education and that you identifying the persons working in the held of work of the service public to the Ethics and to the importance of the values in environment of work .
the second to P to refer to the process .
the notwithstanding 2 b ) has for subject of protect the interest public in incorporate a mechanism for allow to the officials of the service public of exposing in any confidentiality of the abuse or omissions in the held of work to a Commissioner independent , a of the three commissioners of the Commission of the service public .
he hands then to this Commissioner , in the interest public , of lead of the investigations and of ensure the followed necessary .
finally , the third to P to refer to the protection .
the notwithstanding 2 c ) evidence that the bill of bill has for subject of protect these officials against of the measures of reprisal for have denounced to this commission special , of good faith , or have the intention of the do , of the conduites reprehensible to the within of the held of work .
the honourable senators indicate that the framework of the bill of bill is clear and simple .
the service public she - even working to this question of Ethics and of values .
his record is excellent , account held of the level high of professionalism that showing our officials , who have been to the service of several governments different to the over of the years .
we should be proud of the service public of the Canada .
this question of snitch is a reality with which of other jurisdictional of jurisdiction have tried of tragic .
the governments who if are succeeded have concern their interest for trying of include a legislation legislative appropriate on the snitch .
the model that we propose in this bill of bill , on which , hope - the , the Committee Senate department invitera the involved to present of the representations , intended all simply to designate a of the three commissioners of the Commission of the service public of the Canada to payments of Commissioner of the interest public referred a official having noticed a activity ill?gale or a conduct reprehensible limited a snitch .
the snitch would Creator to the Commissioner of the interest public order that the official not in be not the only responsible , account held of any the anxiety and of the stress that that suppose .
the absence of activity reprehensible is in the interest of the population .
this is why the bill of bill provides the held of a inquiry by the Commissioner of the interest public even .
a snitch can sometimes if promoting futile and vexatoire .
she would defeated in first decision , of sort that he not there would no loss of time for the individual , the Department or the agency in question .
a snitch of good faith current held to a inquiry to the during of which the Commissioner if equitably to the Department .
this last would guest to manage of manner to unconventional the situation , because that he is of first importance that the operating and the management of the departments and of the agencies ensure substandard to the rules of the Ethics and to the values who are the touchstone of our service public .
he not is not question of a approach bottom .
he if is rather of maintain the obligation of pay account and the responsibility to the level of the operations .
however , if the High of the interest public responsible of a snitch of conduct reprehensible jugeait that he not receives not a response satisfactorily of the agency or of the Department , he could if contact to the Minister , who must finally pay of the accountability , and the Minister Gustafson to rectify the situation .
in ?laborant this mechanism , we have felt extremely important that the service of implementation in value and of education continues of return to the Commission of the service public .
finally , he was necessary of include the protection of the prerequisite legal of the confidentiality .
she must be unabated soon that the official tabled a phase deposited of the Commissioner , through to the ban of any legislation of reprisal .
honourable senators , this are the principles who under - tend this bill of bill .
I in have trac? the major lines .
I invite my colleagues to participate to the debate .
( on the motion of the Senator Finestone , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act on the Assent Royal
second Reading - Motiond' amendment - Ruling of the Speaker
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Staunton - Lynch , seconded by the hon. Senator Kinsella , seconded to the second Reading of the bill of bill S - 7 , Act Current to the guideline of granting by the Governor General , to the behalf of Majesty Majesty , of the Assent Royal to the bills of bill adopted by the Houses of the Parliament ;
and on the motion of amendment of the hon. Senator Cools , seconded by the hon. Senator Sparrow , that the bill of bill not be not now read a second time , but rather when his sponsor remplira the condition exig?e by the bill of the Parliament before the Adopted by the Parliament of a bill of bill of initiative Parliamentary amend a prerogative Royal , this condition preliminary met the latitude of the consent Alaska of Majesty Majesty to the study by the Parliament of his interests in the bill of bill S - 7 , who move of limit and of amend the formalit?s of granting of the Assent Royal by Majesty Majesty to the Canada , and of the even suddenly of amend the provision of the Senate . - (
decision of the Speaker ) .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , if that agreeable to the Senate , I am prepared to pay my decision now .
of the Senators :
of agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the 1 December , to the during of the debate in second Reading of the bill of bill S - 7 relatively to the guideline of granting by the Governor General , to the behalf of Majesty Majesty , of the Assent Royal , the Senator Cools has proposed a amendment .
the amendment would for effect of until the second Reading of the bill of bill until to this that the sponsor of the bill of bill , the Senator Staunton - Lynch , consult the latitude of the consent Alaska .
the Senator Cools has fact argue that this amendment if numbers , met given that the bill of bill , to his notice , severing a prerogative Royal .
on this , the Senator Staunton - Lynch has challenged the amendment in sections the Rules .
the Senator Carstairs , then the Senator Kinsella have said that they were of agreed with the Position of the Senator Staunton - Lynch .
answering to these objections , the Senator Cools has denied that the amendment proposed objective to impose of the restrictions to who that be .
in this case - side , however , the Senator Cools has supported that met given that the bill of bill Can a prerogative Royal in seize on the powers of the Sovereign relatively to the Assent Royal , he should give a indication as what the Governor General or Majesty Majesty the Queen hear to the proposal certainty in the bill of bill S - 7 .
the Senator Cools has given as example the debate who has assembly the study of the Parliament Act in 1911 , bill who allows the Parliament to adopt of the bills of bill in coronary the House of the Lords .
I have , since the Order to the Rules , examined all the facts and am now prepared to me deal .
all of first , he there has in my spirit two elements to consider in this Order to the Rules .
the Prime , well course , respect the question of the prerogatives royal .
the second door on the kind of amendment who is authorized to the step of the second Reading .
I traiterai of first of the second part .
to the second Reading , the Senate is called to vote on the principle of the bill of bill , that the Senate accept or not his intention first .
this rule of the principle of the bill of bill has led to limit the type of amendment who can be proposed to this step .
to share the motion of question pre , who is a motion of Alternative , he there has essentially two types of amendment who are licences in second Reading , the referred to several months and the amendment considerations .
the referred to several months intended to until the study of the bill of bill in proposing that he be read : to a second time in six or three months to rely of this day to .
the form of the motion is well established ; she has been created by the Parliament British he there has more of two centuries order of bending the definition too closely of the term to now to in the motion usuelle Authorize second Reading : to That the bill of bill [ ... [ be now read a second time to .
of our days , she commit usually to extend the debate , met given that she give to the persons who if are already address on the motion key the possible of take to new the speak .
the amendment considerations , by against , is a mechanism for do registering a statement or a explanation , under form of motion , for clarify why a bill of bill not should not be read a second time .
in the facts , as the explain the book 286 Parliamentary of Beauchesne , 6e edition , to the comment 670 , to the page 207 , the amendment considerations must answer to some criteria .
the amendment considerations must affirming someone principle who strictly to the conflict or if precludes of the principles , of the objectives or of the provisions of the bill of bill or he can comment the circumstances Impediment to the Presented or to the review of the bill of bill , or in do argue of other for if against to his Adopted .
of more , the comment 671 ( 3 ) , to the page 208 , suggests hear that the amendment considerations not must not ask of conditions to the second Reading .
following the amendment proposed by the Senator Cools the 1 December :
that the bill of bill S - 7 not be not now read a second time , but rather when his sponsor remplira the condition exig?e by the bill of the Parliament before the Adopted by the Parliament of a bill of bill of initiative Parliamentary amend a prerogative Royal , this condition preliminary met the latitude of the consent Alaska of Majesty Majesty to the study by the Parliament of his interests in the bill of bill S - 7 , who move of limit and of amend the formalit?s of granting of the Assent Royal by Majesty Majesty to the Canada , and of the even suddenly of amend the provision of the Senate .
by therefore , the motion of amendment not is not valid and not can be implementation to the Senators as amendment to the step of the second Reading of the bill of bill S - 7 .
that however not rule not the problem completely .
as I the have said lines , he there has two aspects to consider in this Order to the Rules .
as the has indicated the Senator Cools in his intervention , the consent is necessary when a bill of bill committed body the prerogatives , the income h?r?ditaires , the property or the interest personal of the Crown .
in this case - side , he not fact no doubt that the only about of the bill of bill S - 7 is extend of the prerogative Royal .
the bill of bill not contains no clause regarding the property or the interest personal of the Queen .
the question to which he must answer , then , is of know if a bill of bill who move of the formalit?s other that the ceremony of Assent Royal severing a prerogative of the Crown .
in reaps his point of view , the Senator Cools if is order to of the comments facts to the Parliament British during the debate surrounding the Parliament Act in 1911 .
I lengthy not not too know how this example can enlighten the circumstances who we originated .
the comments of Lord Lansdowne doing equally the need of obtain the consent Alaska when a bill of bill severing a prerogative Royal , without however clarify the nature or the scope of the prerogative Royal , particularly in this who has relates to the lightweight constitutional of the Canada .
of after Beauchesne , the question of the consent Alaska can be imminently important for the decision final regarding a bill of bill .
to the comment 726 ( 2 ) , to the page 221 , he is said that to his defaults ( the consent Alaska ) makes nulles and not cooperating the deliberations pensioners in view of the Adopted of the bill of bill to .
as of many honourable senators the know , this not is not the first time that the Senate studying a bill of bill on the Assent Royal .
in 1985 , the Committee of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure has presented a report on the Assent Royal , who recommended including the drafting of a resolution for that a directed Joint be sent to the Governor General Requesting that he envisaged the amendment of the ceremony of Assent Royal .
however , the report not has never been adopted by the Senate .
to the during of my research , I have also found that , when the Parliament British had adopted the Royal Assent Act in 1967 , the consent Alaska has been LG as to the House of the Lords that to the House of the Commons before the Adopted of the bill of bill .
in fact , the consent Alaska has been announced before the second Reading , as the Senator Cools suggestion that you convey with the bill of bill S - 7 .
on this question , Beauchesne limit to the comment 726 ( 2 ) that to the use means that the consent Alaska be LG soon the pre of the debate to .
in the subsection following , Beauchesne explain to the comment 727 ( 1 ) that to well that the consent can be LG to not important what step of the deliberations preceding the Adopted clear of the bill of bill , the use of the House ( Peoples Commons ) means that he the be during of the Presented of the motion Authorize second Reading to .
of more , he seems that the use of mean the consent Alaska to the Canada not has almost never affected the Senate and the House of the Commons .
in the many case where the consent Alaska has been obtained and LG , I have found that he is usually LG to the House of the Commons and rarely to the Senate .
in fact , I not have found that a case where the consent Alaska has been LG in our House .
that if is past in 1951 , fair before the second Reading of the bill of bill 192 , Act amend the Act on the Petitions of right .
the use to the Canada of give the consent Alaska to the House of the Commons only has been increased by the book of procedure Parliamentary Parliamentary Procedure The Practice respectively report Dominion of Canada of John Bourinot , who goes to 1884 , in his first edition .
a example namely of 1886 , content in the fourth edition of 1916 , give a example where the consent Alaska has been LG , to the House of the Commons and not to the Senate , in the case of a amendment by the Senate to a bill of bill private of the Commons .
that seems a example acceptable of a derogation to the lightweight of Westminster .
that do in the revitalizing circumstances ?
as I the have already explained , you not can use a amendment considerations as the Senator Cools the has proposed .
he would can - be better spent raise the question under form of Order to the Rules to the held of propose a amendment to the step of the motion of second Reading .
however , even under form of Order to the Rules , I not have nothing heard who me stipulating , in my quality of Speaker , to until the debate on the bill of bill S - 7 to the step of the second Reading .
the consent Alaska is can - be necessary , but in service of the precedents Canadian , he seems that nothing not demands necessarily that the consent Alaska be given in this chamber .
in consequential , I declare that the amendment not is not valid and that the debate in second Reading on the faults bill S - 7 can if continue .
I move however that , if this bill of bill is adopted in second Reading , the Committee referred the bill of bill will referred studying also the question of the consent Alaska .
( on the motion of the Senator Poulin , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act on the Parliament of the Canada
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Grafstein , seconded by the hon. Senator Callbeck , seconded to the second Reading of the bill of bill S - 5 , Act amend the Act on the Parliament of the Canada ( poet official of the Parliament ) . -
( the hon. Senator Kinsella ) .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I rise for do few comments on the principle of the bill of bill S - 5 , Act amend the Act on the Parliament of the Canada ( poet official of the Parliament ) .
of first , I wish to attention to the honourable senators that I support the principle of the bill of bill .
I congratulate the Senator Grafstein of have brought this question to our attention .
traditionally in Britain - Britain , the payments of poet official of the Parliament is Award by the monarque to a poet who has the duty of write the odes and the toward comm?moratifs .
this is a vestige of the used m?di?vale according which of the versificateurs and of the m?nestrels teamwork part of the following Royal and also of the then more recent where of the po?tes as Chaucer and Michigan hopefully of the m?c?nat Alaska .
Bradlee Jonson seems have been the poet official of Charles Ier in 1617 , but the payments present , in English laureate , learned of the used vowels and Roman of culminate of laurier , has been assigned for the first time to John crash in 1670 .
small fact anecdotique in way , honourable senators ; to a time given , John crash was fought a time by of the opposed political because that he had wrote a pamphlet that they not had not loved ; the then was dangerous , even for a poet .
these past years , the duties protocolaires of the position have been ?limin?es in a broad legislation .
the successors imm?diats of crash have been Thomas Shadwell , Nahum Tate , Nicholas Rowe , Laurence Eusden , Colley Cibber , William Whitehead , Thomas Warton , Henry Pye and Robert Southey .
the most of these po?tes , honourable senators , the successors of Jonson and of crash , were viewed as of the ?crivaillons ; they are now cup in the oversight , and human not the reads more .
William Wordsworth , of 1843 to 1850 , and Pellan , Lord Tennyson , of 1850 to 1892 , have been of the candidates authentiques and meritorious - even if they not have prepared no of their major exclusivity during that they assumaient the duties of poet official .
Pellan Austin , of 1892 to 1913 , is piece in the oversight , to fair payments of the notice of some students in literature English .
John Masefield , of 1930 to 1967 , has been popular to the then , but he is now piece in the oversight .
Cecil Day - Lewis , of 1968 to 1972 , has composed of Gallery poet who are still surviving , but he is particularly known of our days because that he is the father of the acteur Daniel Day - Lewis .
John Betjeman , who has served these duties of 1972 to 1984 and whose the Hall not was not extraordinary to the then , has however been a excellent criticism in Equity of architecture .
Fran convict , who has tenure these duties of 1984 to 99 , that God gave his soul , has been the better poet official since Tennyson .
even if he not was not also drama that the great poet of the then victorienne , he has probably been a better poet official .
convict is became poet official only after that Philip Larkin , considered by good number as the better poet British of the 50 past years , gave refused these duties .
even if he was greatly admired as poet , the most of the toward that convict has snitch during that he was poet official have been brush to the point of in be ridiculed .
convict has tenure the role of poet official during 14 years , until to his death in October 1998 . In the case of convict , he if is acted of a appointment to life r?compens?e by a fund of sherry et100 books .
I hope that we can do better that that , Senator Grafstein .
Andrew Motion , the new poet official of the Britain - Britain has been chosen by the Prime Minister Tony Blair .
Mr. . Motion was perceived as the more botulinum of the many candidates sugg?r?s and his choice has developed a term to the rumour loose for the traditionalistes according expelling Tony Blair , the Prime Minister turned toward the modernit? , would could suspending of the authors known in favour of a to poet of the people to .
Sir Paul McCartney , of the Beatles , was a of the names whereas in this context .
the poet official of the Britain - Britain is still approved by the Queen , but chosen to departure of a short list by the Prime Minister .
the poet chosen must write of the toward on the family Royal and for of major opportunities national and of major ceremonies .
then that of many po?tes whereas as candidates to the position have priesthood before this prerequisite , Motion had demonstrated his very good showing in writing of him - even a Smart on the death of the princesse of Galles .
the poet Carol Jill Duffy , of Glasgow , has said that if she had been earlier , she would refused of celebrate in toward of the events 1888 as the wedding of the reportedly Edward and of Sophie Rhys - Jones .
she has said to the newspaper The Guardian :
no poet who if respect not should have to the do .
this position allows of do as of other things interesting .
he must if ask if that could be dangerous in the context Canadian met given the diversity of our country .
you can if ask if a poet as Gaston Miron , by example , would happy of write a Smart for the family Royal .
we could can - be eliminate the need of write of the poet to the about of the state .
I think that this would a not in the good leadership .
the Committee could add examine this proposal .
this is the seaway that the Americans have earlier with success .
when the last poet official is death in Britain - Britain , of many other po?tes have left know that the position not the fatalities not .
the reason , this is that the most of between them not wanted not office this position , of the fact that the tradition means that the Incumbent ?crive of the poet for the state .
the late poet irlandais Michael Hartnett has already said that the poetry was a act of r?bellion .
the poet Paul Durcan is became a friend very poised of Mary Packwood and he has composed a Smart for his nomination to the Speaker of the Republic of Ireland , but Paul is the exception rather that the rule .
Seamus Heaney has past any his life to write of the poet who not recognize not the state - for of the reasons evident well heard .
when a journalist of the New York Times has called Craig Raine , a poet of Oxford for him ask if he was interested to become the next poet official of the Britain - Britain , he if is exclam? : to Oh my God , not to and he has raccroch? .
Andrew Motion , who had cri? on all the merged that he convoitait the employment , has said that he occupation this position as to a challenge extremely complex and interesting for a poet . to
he has said :
I think that I want put in value the responsibilities traditional who consistent to write of the poet for of the opportunities royal , including , but that I wish also many to diversify the employment or , of the least , to write of the poet dealing of the themes national more broader whose I want also speak .
he has said that he wanted in particular promote the poetry to the school .
he if is distrust of not never write of poet who ensure to simply flagorneurs and sentimentaux to .
motion lives to Islington , the Headquarters of the North of London where vivait Blair before of dramatically his p?nates to the 10 , Downing Wall .
he has fact his studies to Oxford , and holds the chaire of drafting calls to the University of East Anglia , to Norwich .
he has released nine kit of toward , prepared a biography of Keats marvel by the criticism and won the price Whitbread for his biography of Larkin , a poet who has refused the position of poet official .
certainly , the position in as that such not is not Concludes held in high believe , but the won for his allocations risk of uncontroversial a great interest .
the paris structured are took parWilliam Hill , the key agency of paris of the Britain - Britain .
addition Ms Duffy , the list of candidates includes Seamus Heaney , Derek Walcott , Wendy Cope , Benjamin Zephaniah , James Fenton , Tom Paulin etGeoffrey Hill .
in a editorial saluant the choice of Motion , the Times of London has said of him that he was
... a poet to the understanding quiet , of a unkind humanity and of a force lyrique .
his implement is characteristically British , be maker of the sea and of the marais salants , of losses personal and of the past national .
honourable senators , I am aware of the time , but I wanted when even highlight that the position of poet drafts diversified to the Library of the Congress is the equivalent American .
the position has been based in 1938 to payments of chaire of poetry , then , in 1984 , he has been changed for drafts .
among the po?tes structured of the States - United , you account Robert Penn Warren , Richard Wilbur , Howard Nemerov , Mark Strand , Joseph Brodsky , Mona Van Duyn , Rita Dove , Robert Hass and Robert Pinsky .
in 1984 , Robert Penn Warren has been appointed Prime poet drafts of the States - United for a length of a year by the Library of the Congress .
the appointment duration a year , but she is registration .
many , said - you , have trend to subtly that the Americans have more of opportunity that the Britanniques with their poet official , primarily because that he plays a role many more Conduct .
to my notice , honourable , this is a well better role that extend who if limit to tragic of the toward for the events structured .
in conclusion , honourable senators , I repeat that , to my notice , the bill of bill S - 5 is a good idea who deserves that you the studying carefully .
he would can - be good of if ask if the payments to poet official to is the more appropriate .
to the States - United , he if Order the to Po?te advisor of the Library of the Congress to .
some po?tes Canadian that I have consulted for the preparedness of these notes have proposed of the 1993 of nature least 126 , more sensibles or culturellement neutres as to Po?te in residence to the Library of the Parliament to or to Po?te Parliamentary in residence to the Library national to .
of other find the terminologie used in the bill therein S - 5 a little d?pass?e .
this is a point referred the Committee who will responsible of examine this bill of bill cite can - be reflect .
the Committee should also study the nature of the Committee of selection proposed .
he would can - be good that a poet in convey part .
he would can - be good also of do reference to of the associations of po?tes as The League of Canadian Poets , The Writers' Union of Canada , The Canadian Authors Association , The Regional Writers Association and of other .
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , I like inform the House that I have the intention of offer my contribution to the debate , but more later .
can - be the Senator Hays like - he adjourn the debate ?
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act on the Immigration
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Senator Ghitter )
- honourable senators , I like speak today today in the debate to the step of the second Reading of the bill therein S - 8 , amend the Act on the Immigration , presented by my colleague of the west of the Canada , the Senator Ron Ghitter .
the system developed in place for facilitate the Presented and the review of the bills of bill pleas is the a of the aspects positive of our Rules .
when I LaMarsh my reminder in the other House , - and I know that , to all purposes practices , the even regulation if applies - for that a bill of bill of initiative privacy can be debated to the step of the second Reading , he him needed move to the across of a sure number of filtres .
he not if product virtually never in the other place that a bill of bill of initiative privacy can preferred the step of the second Reading and be referred to a Committee .
the bill of bill to the study today today has the deserves of be concision and of Reading ais?e .
I invite urge all those that the question interest to if in above a copy .
I am of elsewhere sure that this is already something made .
I hope that , after that we in regards someone little debated to the step of the second Reading , the bill of bill S - 8 will referred to the Committee .
I think that he deserves that you there implementation of the time , not would - this that for exposing the difficulties inh?rentes to the structure current of the system of Immigration and of reaction of the refugees to the Canada .
the bill of bill S - 8 not is not unknown of the honourable senators who were of the ourselves to the fall 1987 .
he resumed the text of the bill of bill C - aged that the Parliament had adopted to the then .
the bill of bill C - aged not is more in force since the 1 July 1989 .
the bill of bill S - 8 allows the Minister of the Immigration to ban to a dock of enter in the waters domestic or the sea territorial of the Canada and , if this dock is joined in the waters domestic or the sea territorial of the Canada , he can Appear that he be escort? to the port of d?barquement the more poised .
he if is well heard of ships who transportent to their board , or are revelations of move to their board , a human in contravention of the Act on the Immigration or of his regulations .
if the dock if find in the waters domestic of the Canada or in the limit of three miles and that , of new , the Minister of the Immigration has of good reasons of thinking that the dock transporte of the persons who wish enter to the Canada in violant the Act on the Immigration or his regulation , she can lead this dock toward the port the more poised for d?barquer those who are to board .
this bill of bill has been presented in his form original in 1987 to the following of two events .
in 1986 and 1987 , two ships mercy of clandestins are upon to the Canada .
on the Prime if twenty of the Tamouls ; they have accost? in Nova - Nova in 1986 .
on the second if twenty of the Criminal of the Indes orientales ; they have accost? to Newfoundland - Newfoundland in 1987 .
we have now case to of the ships mercy of clandestins who come of China and who nonetheless on our Coast west ; they are led by of the trafiquants or of the passeurs .
honourable senators , I me trouvais to the other place during of the Adopted of the predecessor of the bill of bill S - 8 .
those who if opposed to the Adopted of the bill of bill C - aged , to the then , affirmaient that he was achievable .
I say that we must find a average of do in sort that he works .
even if he must lead of the interviews on the ships in sea before of the detract or approach to of other means , we must find a average .
I believe that the Canada must send a message clear order of accepting those who farm learn of the profits of the routing of cargaisons human .
as all the senators if in remember , the events of the been last to the broad of the Coast of the British - British have irrit? the Canadians because that we have had the sense that you profitait of the system of Immigration - and of refugees - the more open to the world .
the Canadians wanted that the government abhorrent and notwithstanding to these combinards who teamwork enter of the clandestins to the Canada in of the ships d?labr?s that we not tol?rerions not of such actions of violation of our laws .
the government not has nothing fact .
unfortunately , he not has not took of measures for accepting these persisted .
the Minister of the Immigration has announced , he there has two weeks , that she introduce a new bill of bill on the Immigration to the other place during the new year .
a study of this bill of bill , in this chamber for the second Reading and to the Committee , we help to prepare the new bill on the Immigration .
I have forward of continue the debate on this bill of bill and of listen , I the hope , the interventions of the senators who live almost of the coasts Canadian .
honourable senators , this is do insult to the persons who waiting of be admises to the Canada in as that immigrants legal .
we , Canadians , not can not offer of more fine gift to the world that the citizenship Canadian .
the sovereignty of our country ahead , to the extension , in our ability of monitor our border .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I move the adjournment of the debate .
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , I understand that the you move the adjournment of the debate , but I me request how we in are upon to hold this debate for begin .
the motion is placed to the behalf of the Senator Ghitter .
we in are to the fourteenth day of debate and a other Senator has took the speak the Prime to this about .
this is the privilege absolute of the Senator who means present a question of this nature of take the speak the Prime .
I know if the St. Germain spoke to the behalf of the Senator Ghitter .
I suppose that they if are spoke .
the St. Germain Athens - he the remarks of the Senator Ghitter ?
is - this this who is came ?
the St. Germain :
not of the all , honourable senators .
I talking in my behalf own .
I have said to the Senator Ghitter that I finish take the speak to this about .
he if in is left to me , me allowing of be the Prime to take the speak to the step of the second Reading .
I have before this opportunity .
if that breach to the Rules of the Senate , I am sure that , met compassionate of our own Assembly , as of other the have already said , we able correct the situation .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , for clarify the things , I pretend that the St. Germain has proposed the motion to the behalf of the Senator Ghitter .
all that is therefore consistent to the Rules .
the St. Germain had the Authorized of the Senator Ghitter for proceed of this manner .
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . )
the ascertain tabled pursuant to the Act on the transport to the Canada Authorize of the discussions on a proposal of the sector private designed the Purchase of a society air - Report of the Committee of the transport and of the Communications - Adjourned of the debate
the Senate proceeded to the study of the second report of the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications ( restructuring of the industry of the transportation Air ) , presented to the Senate the 9 December 99 . - ( Conformity hon. Senator Bacon ) .
the hon. Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , I wish to thank the deputy - chairman of the Committee , the Senator Forrestall , therefore that all the senators who have participated to the business of this Committee .
during two months , the senators have listened carefully the evidence of different groups who if are introduced before our Committee .
we the have smaller and we have discussed with seriously of all the aspects broader in the report .
I believe that we can be proud of the work that we have accomplished .
our report is balanced and reflects the views of the witnesses heard .
the members of the Committee can be proud of be upon to the across of the account to speak of a even Senators , this who testimony still a time of the quality of the business of the Senate .
by these recommendations , the Committee has wanted protect the interests of the Canadians of all the regions of the country .
the members of the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications francophile that these recommendations appointees to the Canadians , as in a future immediate that away , a service Air effective , Motor and affordable .
we have also insisted for that lesarticles 64 and 65 of the Act on the transport to the Canada ensure renforc?s for guarantee that the transporteur overlooking assure the service currently offered to the communities Canadian .
our recommendation to the about of the bilingualism , to know that all the services offered to the public by the transporteur overlooking and his destinations ensure subject to the Act on the languages official , reflects also our showing that ensure amorphous the services essential faced the Canadians have the right of if expect .
to the namely of the Board of the competition , the members of the Committee have expressed their concern before the absence possible of competition in the industry air to the Canada .
this is why several of our recommendations profit in part or totally the suggestions made by the Board of the competition .
the Committee recommends that the transporteur overlooking if commitment to CPAs of the cr?neaux Commission in of the cities key for allow that he there gave a competition real .
the Committee recommends also to Transport Canada of develop a new framework regulatory on the cr?neaux for guarantee that they ensure divested if they not are not used and that a number sufficient ensure divested to the new players on the market .
in the purpose of help the grandchildren carriers to offer a competition enough , the Committee request that the government review the system informatis? of r?servations order of in eliminate the makes who d?savantagent the grandchildren carriers .
you should also require the transporteur overlooking to allow to the new players on the market of buy of the points of fid?lisation of the great travellers to a price reasonable .
he should also be held of negotiate of the agreements inter - companies and of the agreements of sharing of the codifies to of the conditions reasonable with the new arrivants on the market within who wish conclude of such agreements .
the Committee has discussed in long and in broad of the possible of allow the competition of the companies foreign on the soil Canadian .
he has rejected the concept of cabotage relinquish , but has expressed a sure interest for the rights of sixth freedom .
he has therefore recommended that the government negotiating with the States - United for allow the sales of depository between two points to the Canada if he there has port in a city of the States - United .
the Committee hope that the industry air Canadian become finally prosperous .
this is why he if is partially realized to the argument of several , transpired that he be preferable of increase the limit relax the participation individuelle in actions votantes in Air Canada .
a concentration more great of the actions would , according some , the effect of increase the performance financial of the business .
in a country covering a if vast territory , the industry air not is not a luxury , but a need .
this is a of the reasons for expelling we have felt good of limit to 20 per the participation individuelle in actions votantes in Air Canada .
a limit of 20 per allow to the shareholders of better follow the performance of the management of the business , all in relax the risk of a taken of control foreign .
of other share , a increase of more of 25 per of the participation foreign of Air Canada could put in calling the control Canadian of our more important transporteur national .
by elsewhere , the Committee if concern of the fate vacancy to the employees Millenium by the restructuring in during .
we asking to the government of insist deposited of the transporteur overlooking for that the employees shifted right to a treatment fair in this who has relates to the interparliamentary of the service and to the conditions of departure if a such something if av?rait necessary .
a attention particular should be granted to the understaffed of rotunda .
finally , the Committee is of notice that if the government means ensure a followed effective of the commitments that he require of the transporteur overlooking , he need ask that the parliamentary of the accountability if snapshots in the framework of a forum public , as , by example , of the hearings fairest a time by year by the Board of the transport of the Canada , in cooperation with the Board of the competition , and that the result of these hearings be referred to the Committee of the transport of the House of the Commons and to the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications .
honourable senators , I believe that this is a good report .
we not cherchions not to protect the interest of the shareholders , but rather those of all the consumers across to the Canada .
the members of the Committee have debated assiduously several questions .
to the across of the account , we have succeeded to present a report balanced who testimony of the quality of the business of the Senate .
still a time , this report shows how the Senate can play his role of institution Parliamentary independent .
I realize tribute to all the senators who have attended to our meetings and participated to our business .
this are them who have realized this report possible .
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I am happy of speak today today in the debate on the report of the Committee Standing to Restructuration of the industry of the transportation Air to the Canada to .
you can instalments described this payments of exactly .
he stared however the payments of a document that must write the Senate or the other place of here little .
honourable senators , I wish to congratulate the chairman of the Committee , the Senator Bacon , for the way whose she has led the hearings public and the sittings that has n?cessit?es the drafting of the report .
he is difficult of hold of the hearings and of write a report when the situation that you studying changing constantly .
this is specifically this who if is product during that the Committee knowing his business .
the Senator Bacon has fact a excellent work and deserves all my congratulations .
you has often accused the government of not not act , of let let , of miss of ideas new , of advantage of the accomplishments of the governments previous and , since the Tabled of his recent bill of bill on the referendums , of create of the crises there where he not there in had not .
seriously however , this sacrifices and this inability of include the problems not have never been also apparentes that in the file of the transportation Air to the Canada .
the possible of a only transporteur overlooking or of a monopoly we mena?ait since a good across of time .
this not is that when the itself - saying to crisis to is become imminente that the government has tried of act .
he has ray? of the file a of the agencies to the Canada who includes really well the questions dealing the competition .
I talking here , well heard , of the Board of the competition of the Canada .
the government has suspended his participation to the merger and , by the following , to the offer public of Purchase governed by Onex , who not if is not In .
we must we ask why the government has acted therefore .
the response is simple :
we not the know not .
what d?rangement extraordinary if announced for the system of transportation national ?
of what elements probants disposait the Minister ?
we not the know not .
particularly , this who important well more , this is that not a only of the witnesses , faced we have yet asked the question , not has could answer to a of these questions .
hence can - be why the Committee has concluded that he not was not fully satisfied that the Order to the section 47 of the Act on the transport national was indicated in this situation .
honourable senators , we gone could we stop there .
we gone fact ignoring of the reality of the undergoing who if op?raient and who if op?rent always in the sector in this time even .
the Minister has asked to the involved of the questions on the direction and , in the framework of our research of a solution to the question Current Island section 47 , we have also heard of the evidence on all these direction .
a of the objectives personal that I poursuivais efficient to remind to the members of the Committee that the commitment of the government precedent , all as extend of the government present , was the deregulation and not the shrinking .
the interest public must be sufficient , but not to the average of a framework regulatory .
our postponement reflects the conclusion according which , of way general , the Board of the competition should be the body responsible of protect the interest public in the transport Threat to the Canada .
kidding to the agency of the transport of the Canada the task of ensure to the security of the new businesses and of the new lines air , but let to the Board of the competition the questions related to the monopolies requiring the protection of the public .
that eventually the transfer of the agency national of the transport to the Board of the competition of a branch of the agency Telecommunication the expertise in this field , but this should be a business commercial .
honourable senators , my colleagues and me have been impressionn?s by the work merit in little of time by the Board of the competition to this regard .
in fact , our report on the industry of the transportation Air , currently to the study , if seen in great part of the report of the office .
the suggestion that the office has made of ensure the competition is full of imagination , this who shows that he can respond quickly to a situation .
the speed of reaction is of a importance crucial for a industry who demands the Investment of billion of $ in capital and the determination immediate of the time where the resources financial should be net and of what way .
account held of the time whose he disposait , the Committee has merit a work credible .
I not inalienable not in the detail of the recommendations , because I not invoke that repeat in well of the case this that we critical of hear of the mouth of the chairman .
I me outline of say that we gone could address more in detail the question of the divestiture of the companies air regional by the transporteur beyond of a monopoly .
this is a question on which the Board of the competition should reflect more profoundly , because he appropriate of require the divestiture of the companies air regional .
I talking in the actions of competition .
the Canada is a vast country .
some parties not are availability by air that to some times of the year .
we must ensure the access Air to the regions vital of our country , little important the outcome of the discussions current on the acquisition of companies air .
well course , I included in the definition of to vital to these regions of the Canada faiblement peupl?es as the within of the British - British , the provinces of the Atlantic and of other still .
in addition , the Committee not has not expressed also cleansing that I the chair wanted , or that the Senator Roberge the would wanted , his Opposition to the proposal Air Canada - Hamilton .
a transporteur monopolistique exploitant a company air little offers , without boondoggles , in a great city of the centre of the Canada , limited surely away any competition of the share of other companies air who can projeter or had could projeter of establish a service analogue in this region or any other region of the Canada .
honourable senators , he is needless , in this time , of do of the conjectures on the role puzzling that has played in all that the Minister of the Transport .
he enough of say that he not properly no policy .
the need of contractual the section 47 of the Act on the transport to the Canada , then that he not properly no evidence that we news could hear , suggests to the history the care of examine the role and the lack of leadership of the Minister .
this who important now , honourable senators , this is that the Minister of the Transport abhorrent for protect the interests of the travellers of the Canada against of the price exorbitant , the withdrawal of services and , particularly , a drop of the standards of security .
he would advantage to examine carefully and to put in implement the recommendations of the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications who listed in his report on the restructuring of the industry of the transportation Air .
I you thank of your attention .
I like adjourn the debate to the behalf of the Senator Johnson , if that is acceptable .
( on the motion of the Senator Forrestall , to the behalf of the Senator Johnson , the debate is adjourned . )
Economy Economy , Budgets and Administration
Adopted of the second report of the Committee
the Senate proceeded to the study of the second report of the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration ( situation budget of the committees ) , presented to the Term 9 December 99 . - ( Conformity hon. Senator Rompkey , C ) .
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , I move the Adopted of this report .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
Authorized to the Committee of the Finance national of study the Estimates of the Estimates
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Murray , C , seconded by the hon. Senator Beaudoin :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national be authorized to study , order of in do report , the Estimates set in the Estimates of the Estimates for the fiscal financial if ending the 31 March 2000 ; and
that the Committee presented his report to the more later 31 March 2000 ,
and on the motion of amendment of the hon. Senator Robichaud , C ( St. - Louis - of - Kent ) , seconded by the hon. Senator Hervieux - Hervieux , C , that the motion be amended by adding , after the words to the Estimates of the Estimates for the fiscal financial if laid 31 March 2000 to , of this who following :
to to the exception of the appropriation 1 , 5 and 10 of the Fisheries and Oceans ;
that the Committee Senate Standing of the fisheries be authorized to study the Estimates set of the Fisheries and Oceans CTAISB in the Estimates of the Estimates for the fiscal if ending the 31 March 2000 ; and
that the Committee presented his report to the more later 31 March 2000 . to - (
the hon. Senator Stollery ) .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Senator Murray not is not to the House .
the Order has relates to his motion and to the amendments introduced by the Senator Robichaud .
we could all of even deal of this question soon now .
I wanted ask the notice of my counterpart , to know if we should the address in the absence of the Senator Murray .
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
the hon. Fernand Robichaud :
we able there see all of following .
the Senator Hays :
if I have well including the arrangement , the Senator Robichaud party withdraw his amendment with the leave of the Senate of way to this that the you can examine the motion of the Senator Murray .
the Senator Robichaud carrying to the first opportunity , probably tomorrow , a motion Requesting the referred of this part of the Estimates Main of the Estimates to the Committee of the fisheries , since he falls of the Department of the Fisheries .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , if we things step by step , we modernized our purpose .
his Hon. the Speaker :
I not know not very well this that all that means say .
there has he a request of withdrawal of the motion of amendment ?
withdrawal of the motion of amendment
the hon. Fernand Robichaud :
honourable senators , I like withdraw my motion of amendment to the motion of the hon. Senator Murray .
the hon. Roch Bolduc :
honourable senators , I like express the point of view of the Committee of the Finance national to this about .
I am to the aware of the question .
his Hon. the Speaker :
a moment .
the Senator Bolduc :
the Senator Murray not is not present .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the hon. Senator Robichaud , C , St. - Louis - of - Kent , request to the Senate the leave of withdraw his motion of amendment .
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion of amendment is withdrawn . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , we are of return to the motion of the hon. Senator Murray .
I am prepared to you listen , hon. Senator Bolduc .
the Senator Bolduc :
honourable senators , I not want not take the speak to the behalf of the Senator Murray , but I like highlight that the mandate General of the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national has always been , except few exception these past years , of study the together of the forecasts budget .
however , if a Committee particular , by example , the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture or a other means look the programs of Estimates of the Department of the Agriculture , he not there has not of problem .
by against , the mandate not should not indication the words to to the exception of to .
the Committee of the Finance national not problems not necessarily all the programs .
he attempts of study the Estimates of the Administration public federal in a perspective of policy administrative particularly , of sort that the mandate not can not be CRTC .
this is in this sense that the Senator Murray like argumenter .
he there has a tradition who if explain since long .
he there has many of wisdom in that .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , there has he a desire of adjourn the motion key to the next sitting ?
the Senator Bolduc :
honourable senators , I request the adjournment of the debate .
the hon. Senator Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I think that he agreeable of put the motion to the Senators .
I have listened in that the Senator Bolduc .
when this point of the Order of the day has been called , I have said that , to my notice , this question could be resolved enough easily in subject as we the have fact .
to the future , he if can that this be a little more difficult .
I think that we must we show accommodants with the Department of the Finance national and this is a way of the do .
if the Committee of the fisheries examine the Estimates related to the Department of the Fisheries and of the Oceans , that respond also to the request of the Senator Robichaud without that that creates of divine with this that request the Senator Murray .
that not means not say that you will always proceed therefore , but for the moment , this is a good solution , in the circumstances .
we should put the motion to the Senators .
his Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe - Position eighteenth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary held to St. - Petersbourg , in Russia - Inquiry
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein , having given notice 30 November 99 :
that he call the attention of the Senate on the report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe to the eighteenth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe ( OSCE PA ) , held to St. - Petersbourg ( Russia ) of the 6 au10 July 99 .
then that we scenes of the new millennium , can - you measure of way equitable briefly and of way concise the policy foreign to the during of the last century ?
what is the objective of the policy foreign ?
he if is of do of the world a place more course and more peaceful where live .
yet , the War has domin? the policy foreign .
our century has began on a such note of hope .
he there a100 years , in rifle , the tsar Nicholas II of Russia has , to departure of St. - Petersbourg , launched a appeal to the community international for the institution of a convention seconded to limit the weapons to the level international and to create a new court international responsible of resolve the differences between the States by arbitrage consensuel .
he hoped that that apporterait the peace to the during of this new century , after the 19 century who had been dismantling by the War and who had resulted the death of 16 million of persons .
more later this year - there , in rifle , on the pressure of the tsar , a conference international has been convoqu?e to Position Hague .
in fact , this conference historic has licences of establish of the limits international on the weapons and of referred more particularly the bombs air , therefore that of establish a court international for arbitrer the differences between the States of way consensus .
unfortunately , least of a year more later , in 1900 , this message of hope has been derision .
the won to the supremacy military has reductions .
the construction of cuirass?s , of first by the Germany and then by the England , has heavy the won to the armements Increased .
the outbreak of unrest in the Balkans has led to the war of the Balkans in 1912 and 1914 and has led then to the famous killing of the Arm?niens .
he there has also had then the First War World and a new expression in the lexique of the death : War World .
in 1917 , the Quiet Russian has stay .
then that 1918 marked the end of the First War World , the War between the Russia and the Poland has stay and the unrest in Ireland if are aggrav?s .
a new word of hope has been added to the lexique of the death after the First War World by the chairman Woodrow Wilson : the autod?termination .
during this time , the agitation in China if is d?velopp?e , conduisant to the War civil during the years 30 and 40 .
in URSS , in the years 30 , while that the docu communistes and of other in the world regardaient , the ?purations massives of million of persons if d?roulaient order of maintain the monopoly of the power of the party bolchevique .
imitant the communism , the nazisme and the gers ?talaient their banni?res much who animaient the occupation ?thiopienne in Africa .
with the assistance of the Canada , the Corporation of the Nations has adamantly and if is enlis?e .
then he there report the War of Spain and the conflict of the communism and of the gers , conduisant to the Second War World , of first in Europe , then in Asia .
we we bravely of the holocauste .
he remains a something files .
we we bravely of the horror of Nagasaki and of Nagasaki .
in 1945 , the planet seemed ?puis?e by the horror of the War , but he not there has not had of corners in the massacres .
in starts 40 , of the r?volutions have been there in Asia of the East , in Africa and in America of the South .
these years have seen welfare of the war without end to the Middle - East .
the years 50 we have brought the War of Korea and the expedite of the War of Indochine .
his Hon. the Speaker :
Senator Grafstein , I am sorry of you interrupt , but he is 18 p.m. .
that wish the honourable senators ?
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
I move that His Hon. not problems not the hour .
his Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Grafstein :
to the end of the years 50 , we have been witnesses of the revolution cubaine , bleary followed by the revolution cultural Chinese , the War of the Vietnam , the massacres to the Cambodge and the war in Angola .
to the during of the years 60 , the Ireland if is of new enflamm?e , apr?s8 decades of War .
the years 70 have seen behold to the moins37 conflict important a little across to the world .
then are touring the years 80 with the War between the Iran and the Iraq to the during of which , in way , more of a million of people have been killed , there including of the children soldiers .
more of people have been killed to the during of this War that in all the war who have had held to the Middle - East since the beginning of the century , and all that for few kilometres of Guarantee .
the years 80 have been those of the War in Afghanistan , of the war tribales in Somalia , of the invasion of the Koweit by the Iraq who has led to the War of the Koweit , of the war tribales to the catalogued , to the deflect , the long of the Congo and to the Sudan and of the beginning of the War civil in Indonesia , to the Timor oriental therefore that in America of the South and in America core .
honourable senators , this attainable list of war is far of be exhaustive .
however , he there has of the hope : the infested Soviet if is d?sint?gr? .
then the beautiful years 90 , the last decade is arrived , to the following of the dropping of the to Dickie to .
the collapse of the Yugoslavia , resulted by the separation created by the Western of the Croatia , has led to the war whose we have been witnesses in Serbie , in Bosnia and finally to the Kosovo , and with all that to the impuissance of the Nations Nations .
to the eve of the new millennium , you estimate that he there has still more of 24 war who doing heated to the world , particularly in Africa , but also in husks .
in Could in front , not seems he not that a good part of our lives to the during of the century who if close has been ponctu?e of brief interm?des between the war ?
where were - we before the War ?
that have - we fact between the war ?
that have - we fact to the during of the War of the Vietnam and therefore of following ?
our books litt?raires are refreshed of actions and of reactions to the various war .
why then should - we highlight the work of the OSCE and of other agencies dedicated to the democracy by of the means harshness , when we not can we prevent of look in front on this century dismantling by the death , all that to the behalf of the state or of the faith ?
in 1994 , Zbigniew Brezinski , former - advisor of the Speaker Carter in Equity of democracy , has seemed that he there had had 164 million of innocence victims and of soldiers dead to the during of this century .
I have me - even constant that these violent affronts could have caused almost of 200 million of dead to the during of the present century only .
each decade has been witness of a Submarine to the chapter of the violence technologique , of the tueries insens?es , of the mutilations and of the destructions gratuites .
in this case , honourable senators , that must - we do ?
that can - we do ?
the condition human has she progress? to the during of this century ?
Tolsto? has yet fact of the remarks pr?liminaires .
he has wrote that we can simply hope am?nager of small clairi?res in a dense forest .
this is this that we have tried to the OSCE since the agreed of Helsinki he there has a Diori of years .
this agreed has replaced the uniqueness sanctity of the sovereignty of the state by the uniqueness sanctity of the individual .
in a speech simply remarkable that he has persistent recently , the Secretary General of the Nations Nations , Kofi Annan , has recognized the culpability of the UN and of his States members who have adopted of the resolutions designed to preserve of the areas seemingly , as the UN the had fact in 1995 to Srebrenica , of sort that by the following the community international had passivement been witness of the killing serbe of more of 7 100,000 victims innocence who , quarter the words of the community international , if were advanced under the flag Blue and white of the Nations Nations only for be massacr?es under the helpful of the cam?ras of television .
recently , we have examined the resolutions of the UN regarding the Timor oriental and pr?conisant strongly the independence , then we have seen the UN look immobile the killing of the third of the population who believer that the UN going require the respect of his resolutions .
the resolutions of the Nations Nations have - they hold the ground of slaughter of the Timor oriental where more of 200 100,000 population of this territory appauvri have been killed by the Oath of the state of the Indonesia ?
the mythology is the more fine compliment .
the action of the NATO to the Kosovo has guest the Russia to the follow in Tch?tch?nie .
the history fact shame .
the number of the dead is past of five million to the rubble century to 16 million to the 19 century , then to to the least 200 million to the 20 century .
the late Cecil Augustus Wright , dean of the Faculty of right that I have fr?quent?e , has cit?M. the Justice Felix Frankfurter to the openness of the Faculty of right of the University of Toronto in 1967 .
following this that he has said :
also fragile that is the reason and also limited that is the right in as that expression of the m?dium institutionnalis? of the reason , this is all this who we 1,600 of the tyranny of the simple showing and of the Trapping of a spirit d?brid? and indisciplin? .
yet , we have learned that the principle of the supremacy of the right not worth nothing if he not is not ?tay? by the power .
this is there the unfortunate paradox of the 20 century .
honourable senators , not should - we not add for the next millennium that the supremacy of the right complying the uniqueness sanctity of the life trading the standard rather that the exception , and that she be formulate by the showing and the power of the political ?
yet the optimism not rime to nothing when the States - United , first super - Oath and Leader world of the democracy , deny of sign a agreed international allowing to a court international of continue of the criminals of War , or a agreed of control of the armements trap , or even a treaty relax the Sudan nuclear .
this was of bad bodes for the peace World in the years 90 .
we must we ressaisir and hope that , for the next millennium , we basis in legislation of we invent a century better that extend whose we have inherited and that we have ruined .
honourable senators , Elie Elie who , before that that not commuting the favour popular , has cover the flame of the remember in this century barbare , has recently released And report Sea determine Never Full , the second volume of his Crosbie .
he we remind that , in the Gen?se , when Balzile has fui the inner after have mordu in the evolved defended , the Senators of God if Charest hear : to Balzile , where role - you ? to
if indeed God is across and that he is omniscient , why would - he sought to know where if amorphous Balzile ?
you we assure that God knew where if amorphous Balzile .
god wanted that Balzile him notwithstanding him - even where he if amorphous and this that he had fact .
where we situons - we we - same in the history ?
that have - we fact of our life ?
each of we can there answer to his manner .
we must back in question the work accomplished by each of the organizations succeeds for the regulation peaceful of the differences .
I seriously hope that the response who we will given to the century next will more interesting that similar of the present century .
can the next generation we surpasser .
the below determined for this century - side not is recognize not very high .
there has he a truth more admired whose we not granted not account in Equity of policy foreign ?
in these two Instruments ahead can - be a solution to the ?nigme of the barbarie enfouie to the heart of the condition human .
the professor Pagels fact the light on the origins of the d?monisation of the to other to of first exerc?e by a faith , imit?e then by the state s?culier .
we not do that begin to canvassing the causes of the difficulty who lives in the heart of the men and of the women .
the difficulty is - he grav? more profoundly and of manner ind?l?bile in the spirit of those who hold the power and who remain yet silent , inertes or , worse , indifferent to the actions of barbarie committed against of other under their own eyes ?
is - this there the strange moral of the last millennium - see without act - and the hope for the next millennium - of the words assorties to the actions ?
not there has he not a paradox surr?aliste in this that I advocating ?
I soutiens that the War s?me the death and yet , I advocating that the you convey still the War for maintain the peace , this who me brings to the aspect ?nigmatique of my own findings for the 20 century .
Sunday last , the writer American Joseph Heller , author of Catch 22 , is honour .
of after a criticism :
honourable senators , I me deregulation of quote here a short from of the Orwell Catch 22 :
to you want say that he there has a attrape ? to
to well course that he there has a attrape to , r?ponditDoc.
to you not in fate not .
all those who want avoid the service borne not are not really crossed . to
he not there had that a attrape and this was that you weakening of any way , to departure of the time where if preoccupied of his security in opposite of dangers real and imm?diats is the fact of a spirit rationnel .
Orr could stay to land because that he was cop .
he him Corel of the ask ; but , soon that he the asked , he cessait of be cop and party accomplish of other missions .
Orr would been cop of accomplish of other missions and statement of not not the do , but if he was widest of spirit , he party the do .
if he the knowing , he was cop and not had not to the do ; but if he not wanted not the do , he was widest of spirit and he party the do .
Yossarian was completely boulevers? by the exhaustion simplicity of this impasse and issued a sifflement admiratif .
to this is any a impasse to , observa he .
to the more nice to , acquies?aDoc.
honourable senators , this is this that I then say of better in this end of century and of millennium remarkable .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
if no other Senator not wishes take the speak , I declare the debate on this inquiry concluded .
the Ontario
the hon. Marie - P Poulin , having given notice Thursday 9 December 99 :
that she call the attention of the Senate on the decision of the government of the Ontario of not not adopt a recommendation designed to do of Ottawa a city bilingual after his restructuring proposed .
the Thursday 9 December , I have tabled a notice of inquiry .
why the government of the Ontario has he chosen of not not follow the recommendation of his aviseur , Mr. Glen Shortliffe ?
what message signal you to the Canadians of our country ?
what respect demonstrates you for the Constitution of the Canada ?
what recognition confer you to the reality of the minorities linguistic of the Ontario , of the Quebec , of the provinces 32 , of the Western and of the Grand North ?
what respect indications - you for Ottawa , seat of the Parliament Canadian , of the service public federal , of the celebrating of the world around ?
honourable senators , several of between we pocket speak on the many questions raised by my inquiry , between other the Senator Jean - Robert Gauthier .
honourable senators , ?coutons the Senator Gauthier .
Ses40 years of commitment others the principle basic of the respect of the history of our country and of the uniqueness startling of our two crops fondatrices we will strong useful in this inquiry .
between - time , I unending my comments of extension for my speech who instrument end to this inquiry , more later .
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , I like of first of first thank the Senator Poulin of his kindness and of his good words .
this is a about enough thorny and , for be well Summer , frustration .
in as that human born to Ottawa , validate to Ottawa and there having lived any his life , I find this debate difficult .
the 6 December last , the government of the Ontario has presented a bill of bill regarding the merger of municipalities in Ottawa - Carleton and of other regions in Ontario , for in do of the cities unique .
the legislation regarding the region of Ottawa - Carleton speaks in great part on the report Mr. Glen Shortliffe , expert - board who had been appointed by the province for study the reform local .
his report , realized public the 26 November 99 , contained of many recommendations regarding the new quoted .
a of these recommendations proposed that the new quoted of Ottawa , amalgam?e , be institutionnellement bilingual .
gold the province , in his bill of bill , not has not chosen this recommendation doing of the capital of the country a city officially bilingual .
the legislation said that : to a time the quoted hosted , she will the power of decide of his own political linguistic to .
in his report on the restructuring , Mr. Shortliffe recommends that the quoted of Ottawa , this is his new behalf official , be bilingual .
in the preface of his report , he said that the region is a to organizes single to of francophones and of English in this region .
he warranted his recommendation in writing :
a of the questions the more important raised during the consultation public was the question of the bilingualism institutional .
more of 15 per of the new wrote of Ottawa will French .
Ottawa is a city single in this province and in this country because she is the capital of the Canada .
our nation has two languages official , you the knows .
the government national works according the Act on the languages official ; the English and the French .
the capital national must intellects the uniqueness of all the country and must recognize the presence in his population of a important minority French .
in consequential , I quote encoreM. Shortliffe in his report :
I recommends that the bill enabling Municipal and reclassification the wrote of Ottawa officially bilingual , in French and in English .
I must note Mr. Shortliffe has , of way attributes , recommended that the new quoted be pantheon bilingual by the Parliament of the Ontario and not not by the new board of the municipality of Ottawa .
of more , Mr. Shortliffe has noted that he will of the resort of the senior board of the quoted of Ottawa of determine the scope and the nature of the services who will available in the two languages official of the country .
he is true that , in the Constitution Canadian , the regulatory of the governments municipal is fully of juridiction provincial .
in the case of the region of Ottawa - Hull , he there has a other level of authority established by the government federal who if Order the Commission of the capital national , this is - to - say the region of the capital national .
the bill cr?a the Commission of the capital national , who succ?dait to the Commission of the District federal .
the authority of create the region of the capital national has been established by the power constitutional r?siduel , be to Statutes for the peace , the Order and the good government of the Canada to .
he there has several options available allowing of correct this decision of the province of the Ontario regarding the bilingualism in the capital federal .
the courts able if in serve for clarify this question .
I not am not lawyer , but I am sure that he there will of the difficulties .
the Parliaments provincial have the authority of adopt of the laws regarding the municipalities .
the government of the Ontario was free of accept or of reject the recommendation Mr. Shortliffe .
all of even , the recent decision of the courts of the Ontario regarding the Civic Monfort could serve of argument in the court .
you know all that ladite decision of the Court divisionnaire has been scope in appeal and I hope that you r?ussira to obtain justice a day in this who respect the services of health in Ontario .
the 29 November 99 , the Court divisionnaire of the Ontario , in a judgment unanimous , has rejected the blundering of the Commission on the restructuring of the services of health , who had ordered the closure of the Civic fought as Hospital General for in do a bigger clinical .
the court has ruled that the Civic fought was necessary to the preserve of the community French in the province of the Ontario .
the court has said that the commission not was not free of ignore the role constitutional that plays the Civic fought as centre really French necessary to the promotion and to the development of the identity franco - Ontario .
the minority French of the Ontario is a entity cultural and linguistic and she has need of his institutions who guarding his culture and his language against the assimilation .
the judges have claimed that the government of the Ontario if must of meet the principle of the protection of the minorities in all his actions .
they were of agreed for say that the francophones have a right constitutional the perpetuate against the assimilation , because they doing part of a community cultural to the Canada and are the a of the two groups linguistic whose the rights are ench?ss?s in the Constitution .
the court stated , and I quote :
[ ... [ met given that the principle of the protection of the minorities - including the protection of the minority French - is a principle independent who under - underlies the Constitution and who has a effect contraignant on the governments , the court must speak , when he there has held , for ensure a protection against the measures governmental who hand to the conflict of this principle .
some rightly the decision decided in the case of the Civic fought as a example unacceptable of militantisme judicial .
the National Financial has machinery to this about .
if you are involved , missed - there , but not you choquez not .
by against , of other feel that she offer can - be a weapon puissante for the protection of the rights of the minorities .
the decision if voice widely of the two judgments that the Court Supreme of the Canada has prominent recently the a , in the case of the Renvoi on the 237 of the Quebec and the other in the case Beaulac , judgments in capably she has continued the right of a man of the British - British to a proceedings bilingual .
we apprenions yesterday that the Commission of restructuring of the services of health asked the Authorized of interjeter appeal of the decision decided by the Court divisionnaire to the about of the Civic fought .
the government has said that he welcomed without contingency this appeal .
even if a action in justice not succeeds not to require the government of the Ontario to designate the new city of Ottawa as officially bilingual , she could serve to of the purposes of policy public .
she would certainly for effect of better do know the question .
if she party delay the consolidation of the municipalities regional , of the pressure if exerceraient on the government provincial ; by against , she risk of claims the Opposition and the unwelcome of those who boat to resolve a time for all the question of the consolidation .
the Senate has for subject of represent the regions of the country and particularly of protect the minorities .
a motion could be tabled to the Senate Requesting to the government of the Ontario of designate the new city of Ottawa as officially bilingual .
to this regard , he is to note that the Assembly national of the Quebec has adopted a motion similar .
the Parliament federal can not not front if involved of a case clear provincial ; by against , the government of the Ontario not hesitant not to if involved of the Affairs federal in Equity tax .
he we fact of the recommendations quasiment to all the days for pretending the taxes .
if this not is not of the meddling provincial , I not know not this that this is .
addition that he there has a minority French appr?ciable in the region of Ottawa , the courts recognize of more in more the protection of the minorities as a principle under - purports of the Constitution , a principle who has a value constitutional .
the recent judgment regarding the Civic fought dealt on the question of know if the education French party be replaced by a institution bilingual .
the bill of consolidation of the city of Ottawa , by against , not respect that the question of the bilingualism .
however , he is significant that some of the municipalities who will regroup?es , including , Vanier , Gloucester and Colchester , have a population French appr?ciable therefore that a long tradition of bilingualism official .
the lack of protection of these communities in the new city raises of the questions similar to those that sick the case of the Civic fought .
you could always let the new city of Ottawa decide if she wish be said officially bilingual .
she could choose of not not the do or return more later on his decision .
for more of safety , he believed better that the bill provincial enabling treating of the question .
the question of the bilingualism can be very cause , as in the case of the case David Levine and similar of the Civic fought .
he would more responsible of the share of the government of the Ontario of do evidence of leadership in d?cidant of designate soon the departure the city regroup?e as officially bilingual .
the report Mr. Shortliffe is carefully prepared and affordably .
as he the declare , the uniqueness French and English of the region fact part of his organizes single .
the government of the Ontario should put in implement this important recommendation .
in the decision that she has decided in the case Monro , in 1966 , the Court Supreme of the Canada establishes clear the power of the government federal on the region of the capital national .
this is there someone something who should or who already topic Ottawa of his Because and of the other regions of the Ontario .
the Court Superior of the Ontario has of more reminded the four principles who under - tend our Constitution : the democracy , the federalism , the constitutionnalisme and the protection of the minorities , particularly the minority French .
these principles have been exclusions by the Court Supreme of the Canada in the causes Barbosa lines , the Renvoi of the 237 of the Quebec and the case Beaulac .
the Position of the government in Ontario seems front let to the city of Ottawa his along of city officially bilingual .
he is possible that this procedure broadsides of two reasons : the refusal of the government provincial of be perceived as pro - French and , second , his desire of not not open the door to the bilingualism official of the Ontario , such that described in the Constitution of the country to the section 133 .
in conclusion , honourable senators , I underscored for say that the city of Ottawa is single .
she is the capital national of a country officially bilingual .
if she must stay the capital national , I say well if , and continue of interfere of the benefits linked to this status , she should be officially bilingual .
in more of his role of capital national , the city of Ottawa is stretch to the border of the Quebec and of the Ontario .
she has a history and a culture francophones rich and account a minority French appr?ciable .
to a then of tension growing regarding the Confederation and the 237 of the Quebec , the question of the nature bilingual of the capital national transpires a importance poised .
addition that he there has a minority French appr?ciable in the region of Ottawa , the courts recognize of more in more the protection of the minorities as a principle under - purports of the Constitution and a value constitutional .
the Globe The Mail not has not been also generous others the question of the Civic Monfort .
the future is to those who struggle .
this is the motto of the newspaper Conformity deteriorated , our daily French in Ontario .
this is this that we happen .
the hon. Serge Joyal :
addition that she abolit of a relates of pen the result of several years of fight and that therefore , she fragilise to new the community minority franco - Ontario , she dimensions of furthering the conception fundamental , the ideal that we we are fact of this country where , in his capital national , his two major communities linguistic fondatrices can live in the harmony , if expand and if enrich to the touch the a of the other .
the governments precedents of the honourable John Robarts , Bill Davis , David Peterson and Stanburys Rae not number not been also unfeeling .
the government Harris not if in is not realized account , but he attack the idea Canadian in his manipulation same .
he there has in this settled a d?n?gation of our aspirations , a ignorance troubling of the efforts of those and those who we have predecessors , and a sort of overcoming on the prejudice and the indifference who , believed - we , had Osteoporo home the leaders who we gouvernent .
Ottawa not is not a city as the other .
this is the key sat of the capital of the Canada .
the government and the Parliament of the Canada op?rent in the two languages official of the country .
the Constitution Canadian there pourvoit and the Court Supreme of the Canada the has eloquently demonstrated in his v. of the 20 August 1998 on the 237 of the Quebec .
this v. is basic for understand the principles who we cover and who are to the basic of our life democratic .
these principles , memories - the , are to the number of four : the federalism , the democracy , the constitutionnalisme and the rule of right , and finally , and not the less , the protection of the rights of the minorities .
this is on this last principle , to the protection of the rights of the minorities to , that I like draw your attention .
honourable senators , I am of notice that the decision of the government spend of abolish the laws pensioners of the city of Ottawa and of Vanier , who their knew the status of city to bilingual to for the replace by a other bill where this protection is disparue , is , to my notice , anticonstitutionnelle and contrary to the principle basic of protection of the rights of the minorities linguistic recognized by the Court Supreme of the Canada in his v. of the 20 August 1998 .
how can - we remain passive before the man9uvre who introducing to abolish the status bilingual of two cities , Ottawa and Vanier , for the home in a great all fusionn? , ignorant systematically the impact that a such initiative will on the rights of the community minority of language official ?
understand well the precedent ; he enough of proceed by the mechanism of the major mergers for do ignoring of 132 years of fight .
you the has seen recently in the example of the Civic fought .
he has enough of front the fusionner with three other hospitals of the region of Ottawa - Carleton for the do away of a relates of pen .
the Court Superior of the Ontario has recently , the 29 November last , in a judgment unanimous of three judges , cass? this decision to the ground that she was unconstitutional , because that contrary to the protection of the rights of the minority franco - Ontario .
let - me of remind the elements essential of the judgment of the Court of the Ontario in this case .
the court has of first recognized that the Civic Monfort jouait a role who Ghana widely the region of Ottawa - Carleton for if expand to the province full .
she has of more underlined that the community franco - Ontario party struggle constantly against the forces of assimilation for power survive .
the court has added , and I quote :
this committee found to the page 6 of the judgment .
for survive , these communities linguistic must power if support on a system of institutions who supportent their development and limit the forces of assimilation .
I quote :
the uniqueness French of their institutions is therefore became of more in more important for duties the role who introducing to preserve and to protect this culture .
this from is learned of the page 7 of the judgment .
therefore , these institutions must ceased in a range of jurisdictional of activities Social also vast that possible for allow to the community minority of if expand and of maintain his vitality .
the institutions are also of the symbols important for the community franco - Ontario .
they reflect the identity of group , the presence French in Ontario and to the Canada , the reality French in the life public and the force and the vitality of the community .
this committee if find to the page 7 of the judgment .
the court has recognized the importance of the language French for support the life of the community .
the language French is the part cultural basic of the community franco - Ontario .
you find that to the page 8 of the judgment .
honourable senators , all these makes not if apply - they not when he if is of the new city of Ottawa , where the francophones are more of 125 100,000 citizens and represent more of 15 per of the population overall ?
the city of Ottawa not is - she not , for the more great share , the sat territorial of the Commission of the capital national , she - even body bilingual ?
how the francophones of the country , who s?journent in the capital for there represent their region , r?agissent - they opposite to the indifference of the government spend to the regard of the symbol even of the life national ?
of the mayors of Ottawa the had d?ja including .
why cancel of the years of harmony linguistic for gentlemen to new the francophones to return on the barricade of the claims ?
why uncontroversial to new the tensions political when the peace linguistic had succeeded to if establish in the respect hills ?
not , the decision of the government spend is contrary to the spirit of our Constitution .
she impropriety the commitment of respect of the equality between the two communities , who is the touchstone even of the alliance Canadian .
the Court Superior of the Ontario the has well reminded : the principle of protection of the rights of the minorities , and I quote :
... not doing not that to describe to of the rights .
they infusent the life in our Constitution .
well that this be of the principles under - revealed and not writing of the Constitution , they could however do welfare of the rights legal 11,800 who limiteraient significantly the action of the government ; in addition , these principles are to also investment of a force normative puissante and tie to the time the courts and the governments to .
to this regard , the court citait the Renvoi relatif to the 237 of the Quebec [ 1998 , 2 R . C . S . 217 [ , pages 248 and 249 of the notice of the court .
the Canada , has said the Court Supreme , is a democracy constitutional .
said simply , the principle of the constitutionnalisme respectful that any action of the government respect the Constitution .
you find that to the page 8 of the judgment .
the initiative legislative of the government spend , who abolit the status of city bilingual for the new city of Ottawa ...
... must be measured to the aune of the to protection of the minorities to , the a of the principles structurants basic of the Constitution .
if the conduct is wrong and impropriety this principle , the court of review must speak ...
that if find to the page 20 of the judgment .
honourable senators , he we must learn the findings who if impose .
seen that the principle of the protection of the minorities - and particularly of the minorities francophones - is a principle independent and under - purports of the Constitution , a principle fresher of a force normative puissante who locks the government , the court must speak to the need for protect lesdites minorities against any intervention of the government who will to the conflict of this principle .
this committee if find to the page 23 of the judgment .
the citizens francophones of the city of Ottawa and of Vanier , and , to a other degree , those of the cities of Colchester and of Gloucester lose their right of receive of the new city of the services in French .
he in reaches of even for the other Canadians who s?journent to Ottawa for there represent their commettants , their region or their District Senate , as this is the case for me - even .
he we must therefore mean to the government spend that if he refuses of reconsidered the legislation who abolit for the new city of Ottawa the status of city bilingual , a court will business before the courts beneficial competent for do declare nulles and not cooperating the provisions of the bill of bill who aboliraient the recognition of the French in the statuts of the new city .
honourable senators , he there has a inequity admired to withdraw a right by following of a initiative of merger who intended to noyer in a great all a community who disposait before of right sufficient .
he would really too simple of proceed therefore for bending the principles who are to the basic of our Order constitutional .
this is there the ideal even who is to the basic of the identity and of the characteristic of our country .
this ideal not is not reached , and he must always there work , he not there has not of repos for those who the serve .
we not can allow that of the politicians provincial , to short view , internationalist of vision national , attack therefore our ideal without that we r?agissions with the means that the bill fundamental of our country we guarantees .
not let not this settled become the symbol of the defeat of our community , F of tailler his place in the capital of our country .
honourable senators , this is my firm intention of me Services to this that a action in disability be business against the bill Ontario who refuserait of recognize the rights prior of the minority French of Ottawa and of all the citizens of this country who believe profoundly in the equality of status of the two languages official .
Prouvons that a time that a government has recognized a benefit of status to our community , he not can more act of manner discriminatory , and create to new the inequality .
he there has 23 years , I entamais of the prosecutions against the Minister of the Transport of the then of my own government , for do declare none a regulation prevented the use of the French in the cabines of pilotage ; he there has 23 years , I entamais also a court against Air Canada , society of the Crown , for the takes to if stop of tools for do of the French a language of work in aviation .
the two actions have been welcomed Right by the courts Canadian .
he there has 17 years , to payments of Secretary of state of the Canada , I contribuais to put on foot the program of challenge judicial for help the communities minority of languages official to do meet their rights .
still today today , he met do appeal to this program for support our determination to in guarantee the survival and the rayonnement .
the government spend has decided of bringing the judgment of the Civic Monfort in appeal .
he has believed timely of in appeal the legitimacy .
continue the fight , if necessary , until in Court Supreme of the Canada , there where our rights must receive their last recognition .
I invite therefore the senators Marie - P .
Poulin , Jean - Robert Gauthier therefore that the citizens of Ottawa and of all the Canada to approach to the courts for protect their rights and those of all those who believe in a country where the equality of the French and of the English is a ideal of civilization and of freedom single for the dignity human .
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I chair few questions to ask to the Senator Joyal .
his Hon. the Speaker :
since the time awarded to the Senator Joyal is expired , let - you to the hon. Senator of continue to ask of the questions ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , he starts to be later and some of between we have of the obligations .
the Senator Grafstein :
honourable senators , I unending the observation of the Leader of the Opposition to the spirit and I happy short .
the question is important .
we have heard three senators francophones speak of this about .
I have a observation and a question to present to the hon. Senator .
personally , I find incompr?hensible that the policy bipartite of the government of the Ontario not gave not been of go of the before of way energetic .
the first ministers Robarts and Davis , of the Party Conservative , the Prime Minister Peterson , of the Party Liberal , therefore that the Prime Minister Rae , of the NDP , would certainly irrit?s - and I hope that we the opens give their notice - before this diversion and these gamineries of the government of the Ontario .
I say that to payments of Senator of the region of Toronto .
if the hon. Senator will of the before with his Order before the courts , I happy happy of do furthering common with him to payments of Senator representative Toronto .
he is important that of the senators not francophones actually state of their dissatisfaction before the political adopted in the region that they represent .
the first extract to expand the zone geographical of the Commission of the capital national , this who , I poured , could if do by a bill of bill of initiative Parliamentary presented to the Senate .
by therefore , he is clear that all the territory of the capital national is bilingual .
second , has he arisen the Order to the power of awesome of the bill provincial whose limit the government federal ?
the Senator Joyal :
honourable senators , the question that the Senator Grafstein raises is a question who , in right , is complex .
the Commission of the capital national not diminish not the jurisdiction him allowing of provide of the services municipal in of the areas as those of the fire , of police , of the facilities of pursuits , and cetera .
according the Commission of the capital national , the provisions of presents urban understand of other responsibilities , particularly in report with the presence of the government federal .
I talking here of the services of Administration and other who , until to a sure point , recoupent those of the Administration municipale .
even if we find expand the limits of the Commission of the capital national for that they regroupent the together of the territory served by the new city , the limits of the new city of Ottawa would regulated by the bill as this is the case of the city current .
in this who respect the power of repeal , the honourable senators understand that this is a question very complex .
the Court Supreme of the Canada has administering that a power not can be squelched as and also long that he found in the Constitution .
however , this is there a question on which should if dealt the government of the Canada if a recommendation was made to the gouverneure General of the Canada in this context and in approval account that this power not has not been used since very long .
if he had been used , this would in of the circumstances exceptional .
this could be there a raccourci for ending to the solution that we wish , but he there of other means who could be all also effective .
he would useful for all the Canadians of all the provinces that a decision be taken in this file .
I see the Senator Staunton - Lynch of the other side of the House .
he knows that North Hatley and Ayer' St. Cliff are in considering of fusionner in the even context .
however , if these cities fusionnent , North Hatley perdra the status of city bilingual that him recognizes the notwithstanding 13 f ) of the Act on the language French to the Quebec .
they want fusionner the services .
someone 40 per of the population of the new city would of language English , this who if translate by the loss of their status bilingual .
this question transpires a such importance that he is impossible of him contribute a solution by the through of a power of repeal .
he is very important in this country that the rights individual of the minority , that she be of language English or of language French , ensure guaranteed .
in of other words , a time that these rights have been recognized , they not can be indirectly reduced by of the objectives administrative who are shaped on the plan financial but who equivalent to a destruction total of these same rights for the minority .
( on the motion of the Senator Fraser , the debate is adjourned . )
the Senate
motion of keeping of the procedure of Assent Royal - Maintien of the motion
to the appeal of the motion No. 43 :
that the Senate of the Canada states the procedure of Assent Royal to the Senate , such that she is submitted by the authorities in procedure Parliamentary Norman Wilding and Philip Laundy : to Position ceremony pratiqu?e to the Canada is similar who seems if apparenter the more to the drafted to .
that the Senate upholds the right sovereign of Majesty Majesty , such that he is statement in the Act constitutional of 1867 , and who him authority the prerogative of deal the procedures parliamentarians and the bills of bill studied , developed to the Senators or adopted in the two Houses of the Parliament ;
that the Senate , in as that House where Majesty Majesty authority the Assent Royal , states his right constitutional ancestral as House of the Parliament where convergent the business of the three branches of the Parliament seize together in as that Parliament of the Canada ;
that the Senate states the right of the Parliament , the to lex parliamenti to , the bill ancestrale who limit that the consent Alaska is required for the study by the Parliament of all bill of bill or any procedure Parliamentary who Can the prerogative of Majesty Majesty ;
that the Senate states that the procedure Parliamentary to follow by a member for obtain the consent Alaska is of table to this effect a motion Authorize directed to Majesty Majesty , who if topic of the other forms of request of consent Alaska experienced have access the Prime Minister or the ministers in the fiscal of their responsibilities seems ;
that the Senate states the obligation of obtain the consent of Majesty Majesty before that be examined a bill of bill who affectera the prerogative Royal , to the example of the consent Alaska who has been given by the Queen Elizabeth II to the Royal Assent Bill of 1967 , who has been realized to the House of the Lords of the Kingdom - U by the Grand Chancellor Gardiner to the step of the second Reading of the bill of bill , the 2 March 1967 :
to your Seigneuries , I am responsible by Majesty Majesty the Queen of inform the House that Majesty Majesty , having been interviews of the subject of the bill of bill , hear to put his prerogative and his interest , in the legislation where they are Millenium by the bill of bill , to the clause of the Parliament to the purposes of the bill of bill . to
and who has been sir few weeks more later , the 17 April 1967 , to the House of the Commons of the Kingdom - U by the prosecutor General Sir Elwyn Jones :
to I am responsible by the Queen of inform the House that Majesty Majesty , having been interviews of the subject of the bill of bill , hear to put his prerogative and his interest , in the legislation where they are Millenium by the bill of bill , to the clause of the Parliament to the purposes of the bill of bill .
I have the honour of propose that the bill of bill be now read a second time . to
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I point the Rules .
even if the sponsor of this motion , the Senator Cools , not is not present , if I not raises not this question now , I could be accused of not not the have raised soon that I have could the do .
I move therefore that the rule of the anticipation be existing in the case present .
indeed , if this motion is placed to the Paper , the even question there figurera a second time .
the first between in conflict with the second .
as the provides the comment 512 ( 1 ) of the sixth edition of the Beauchesne :
( 1 ) Conformity ban of studying , in of other words the ban of address more earlier that expected a case placed to the Paper , broadsides of the even principle that the rule who banned of raise two time the even question to the during of a session .
I draw also your attention on the comment 512 ( 2 ) .
I point the Rules because that I believe that the faults bill S - 7 is a form of procedure more effective that the motion of the Senator Cools .
by therefore , the bill of bill S - 7 should have above , and the motion of the Senator not should not included to the Paper .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Senator Cools not is not here currently .
I ask therefore to the honourable senators of have the indulgence of to the least him give the opportunity of if deal on the Order to the Rules of the Senator Staunton - Lynch .
I move therefore of repeating the discussion on the Order to the Rules tomorrow , in presence of the hon. Senator .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , we not are before of no motion currently .
a notice of motion has been given by the hon. Senator Cools .
by therefore , he not there has nothing on what I can pay a decision .
I understand however the point of view that has fact argue the hon. Senator Staunton - Lynch .
I have examined the situation , but I not can nothing do as that we not basis not before of the motion .
the time came , I happy happy of reflect to the question regarding the Rules .
( the debate is order . )
( the Senate if adjourned to the Wednesday the 15 December 99 , to 13 p.m. 30 . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 22
the Wednesday 15 December 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
' ' '
the l?gendes of the hockey
the team Canada 99
the appointment of the Lieutenant - Governor Statutes Hole
visitors of Gallery
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
the ascertain tabled pursuant to the Act on the transport to the Canada Authorize some carriers Threat unambiguous to negotiate - Presented of the third report of the Committee of the transport and of the Communications
energy , environment and resources natural
Presented of the second report of the Committee
the adjournment
the Group Parliamentary Canada - Japan
Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian to the tenth meeting bilateral Annual with the Group of friendship Canada - Japan
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian to the meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe , held of the 17 to the 19 November 99
the Association legislative Canada - China
Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian to the second meeting Annual , held of the 25 to the 31 October
the Senate
the granting of a status bilingual to the city of Ottawa - Notice of motion
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Finance
the transport
the Defence national
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King
the health
the increase of the Estimates in research on the cancer of the within
the Council of the Treasury
the cabinet of the Prime Minister
the Lieutenant - Governor of the Nova - Nova - Nomination of his XII. - First of a choice not partisan
Order OF orders
the business of the Senate
bill of bill of credit No. 3 for 99 - 2000
second Reading
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in implement of conventions tax
third Reading - Continued of the debate
the SENATE
the Wednesday 15 December 99
the sitting is met to 13 p.m. 30 , the Speaker met to the Chair .
prayers .
the l?gendes of the hockey
the team Canada 99
the hon. Francis William Mahovlich :
honourable senators , I like today today give my version of the team Canada 99 . It there has now 27 years that the to S?rie of the century to has had held , in 1972 , when the world has unceasingly of turn a moment for attend to the great victory of the Canada .
to this then , as today today , he there had of the under - heard political .
our trip had been organized primarily Mr. Lover Tikanov , who objective to if do elected as Governor of the region .
Mr. . Tikanov not is not that a phenomenon policy , he holds more of medals Olympics and sportives that not important which of between we .
my trip had for purpose of me allow of see by me - even the changes who if are op?r?s to Moscow and in Russia since 1972 , and of play a series advances after a victory in 1972 and a defeat in 1974 .
our team was 13 of the protocol having reached the Hall of the Hall Guy Lafleur , and his son , Gilbert celebrating , and his son , Marcel Dionne , Steve Shutt and Brad Park .
the bodyguards of aims Richard S?vigny and Gaston Gingras compl?taient the picture , without forget my son , Fran Mahovlich .
in summary , say that Guy Lafleur has been remarkable during of the Prime match , obtenant the turn of the chapeau .
the duo father - son of Frank and Fran Mahovlich has dismantling a purpose few minutes before the end of the second part , and Frank has been 264 flagship of the match !
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Mahovlich :
the Trophy will presentation in my office .
I not have not had the less fortunate .
the entra?neurs were Yvan Cournoyer and Bobby Hull , all two to the Hall of the Hall .
during of the fourth part , we not wanted nothing let to the accident and all if were preparing to play the match of their life .
the result , 5 to 2 for we , we the must to the son , be Hamelin - Andr celebrating , Martin Lafleur and Edward Mahovlich , who have dismantling two aims .
the Russes were also represented by of great protocol of this series of hockey of 1972 :
this team has she fact Appendix ?
without no doubt , pretend - I , particularly if by to Appendix to you want speak of the way of pay the volume and the perspective with some tons allowing these effects of light who exclusive the contours .
some senators diverting that I talking more of a picture of Monet or of C?zanne .
this not is not true .
this team rest in the memory of the Russes a model of behaviour , of spirit of team , of determination and of spirit sportsman .
I was proud of do part of all that .
the Russes not knew that do for we do happy .
if Marie wanted visit the Grand theatre Bolcho? , the Corporation Pouchkine or the CFTO of m?tro , we had Olag and Stash , the guard of the body , to our clause .
the trip incluait a match to St. - P?tersbourg and a visit to the Corporation of the Hermitage , the palais of Winter of the tsars .
we have travelled any the night by considering and , to our arrived , we have visited the new patinoire of hockey who accueillera the championnats of the world junior in April 2000 .
the Canada will well represented .
the responsible we has fact visit the patinoire and we has explained that the bobsleds was completed to 80 per , that she would prepared for the year 2000 , that she had a ability of 12 100,000 places weakened and that she top 75 million of $ .
when I him have asked of where just the money , he me has answered of the bank and of big investors .
this who we has particularly coalesces all to the long of the trip , this are the changes who if are products .
we have visited the Kremlin , where Eltsine just of meet Leonid Kuchma , chairman of the Ukraine .
his Hon. the Speaker :
I am sorry , Senator Mahovlich , but your time of speak is expired .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
a extension , if he you pleasure !
of the Senators :
missed - there !
his Hon. the Speaker :
souhaitez - you ask the leave of continue ?
the Senator Mahovlich :
yes , Your Hon. .
his Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker :
continued , I you in please .
the Senator Mahovlich :
the Kremlin has been left to nine to the cost of 350 million of $ U.S. and this is a Block whose the Russia can be proud .
I have been to Washington , in France , to Beijing and in Australia .
nothing not if compared to the work who has been merit on the famous merged of the Kremlin of where , to a then , the tsars and the tsarines r?gnaient .
if a Senator has the opportunity of if pay there - lower , the visit of the Kremlin if imposes .
Mr. . Pavel Boredin , the third in the entirely , has had the kindly of we explain in detail all this that the wards constituency and their duties under the regime Communist and under the regime of the tsars .
the place was if great that you had the sense that you could shields our buildings of the Parliament in a Room , and he there had three wards of this size .
this is really intimidant when the chairman Eltsine has a meeting in a of these wards and that you not suggests that a office and two chaises and that you robs all the other day .
the pillars are facts of malachite and of lapis - lazuli and the walls are orn?s of paintings representative of the heroes historic russes .
he there has a something in Russia who remains continuing , this is the used of bringing a toast and of do of the speech .
we have should duties of water our verres of legislation to alcohol after two or three vodkas for power follow our hosts .
the time strong of the trip has been a visit to the cimeti?res with the ?pouses and the son of the entra?neurs and of the protocol of hockey .
the Russes if education regularly to the cemetery for honour the other protocol , by example Lover Kharlamov , who is death in 1981 .
the pierres tombales are of the exclusivity deart.
by example , he there had a buste of Tarasov beyond - above of a Room of granit who was divided in two by of the b?tons of hockey in railway to the fine environment of the cornerstone .
I was if impressed and I have took as of photographs that I have miss of films .
many of Russes we have spoke of their entra?neurs and of their protocol .
in as that Captain of the team , I have spoke of Tarasov and of our meeting to the beginning of the years 60 , therefore that of my experiences in as that witness of the a of the celebrities aims of Kharlamov .
the trip if is concluded by a Patricks to the Hall Savoy with of the divertissements and of the danses russes .
the two teams were revitalizing , contrary to 1972 , where the Russes not if are not introduced after their defeat .
the ambassador of the Canada , Rod Irwin , and his wife were also attendance .
the fum?e of cigare has ran by we bother and we are therefore parties in even time that Julie .
we find do our bagages for our flight of return the next morning .
his Hon. the Speaker :
of the Senators :
the appointment of the Lieutenant - Governor Statutes Hole
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , I am outset that the other honourable senators of the Alberta if join to me for draw the attention of the Senate on the change spoken to the position of Lieutenant - Governor in our province of origin .
laws is a wife of Affairs , a auteure , a diffuseure , a efforts in the field of the education who has served on a period of 30 years various positions to the within of the advice of the districts school of St. - Penitentiary and of the Because .
she has generously and advisory supported of the activities to the within of his community and of the city of Edmonton , where she is very admir?e for his skills and his excellent sense of the humour .
of the people filter of across in America of the North looking the notice of Statutes and , to the during of the five past years , she has took the speak before someone slightly groups and businesses .
he there has a year and half , she has received the Order of the Canada and has been made Chancellor of the University of the Alberta .
already , she if shows Stan. to the perspective of if carry of his new responsibilities met given that she provides put the focus on the importance of the education and of the learning for the citizens of all the unwelcome .
I him wish many of success and I the supporting in any the legislation of my means .
honourable senators , Statutes unseemly to a wonderful gentleman , Bud Bud , a farmer of cardiology Hat who , during more of four decades , has spent his life to the public .
he has been member to the House of the Commons during 15 years and Senator of 1977 until to his statehood to the position of Lieutenant - Governor in 1996 .
all to the long of his career , Bud has been recognized as a of the d?batteurs and experts of the procedure the more qualified of his then .
he me has certainly many learned during all the years where we have been friends on the Hill of the Parliament .
the continuing in the career of Bud Bud , this is that he has always expressed with passion and plain the concerns of his province and , in particular , of the community agricultural .
but beyond - beyond of all that , he must if remind the exhibited patriotism concern to the regard of the country and of the because of the unity , sense who the has drove also in the more recent position that he has served .
I know that all the honourable senators if joindront to me for add the welcome to Statutes and congratulate Bud Bud .
that God your b?nisse , Bud .
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. Nicholas W . Taylor :
honourable senators , he would virtually impossible of do better after the Senator Fairbairn , but I will all of even add few words .
I wish to Bud Bud a retirement in good health .
my links with Bud Carta to of many years .
Bud if is always dedicated for the policy .
he has always been a excellent orator very strong in logical .
I me recall of the campaign that he has research in favour of the Party of the Cr?dit social of the Canada , arpentant the south of the Alberta in motocyclette .
not very long after , he acc?dait to the position of Minister to the within of the cabinet Liberal and if baladait in limousine .
this is for you say that the people of the south of the Alberta hand always very soon in case .
I see that the Senator Ghitter is of agreed with me .
I known Statutes Hole since more long that she not like if in remember .
to the then , as the most of the Liberal , I have should leave Calgary for me do elected .
today today , when we employons the expression to without - homeless to , this is for designate a Liberal to Calgary .
after have served together during of many years in the sector of the education , I thought have reached a purpose .
a of my friends Rouyn of the protocol of football home the graduates of the school in Alberta for the do play in coalescing .
I the have kidnappers home the Hole , whose the two son were of solid gaillards .
the family full is sports , but Statutes me has supported in of the words without definitive that , well that his son shifted been in legislation of take their own decisions , in as that parents , she and his husband souhaitaient that these young people play to the football to the Canada and not elsewhere .
I the attention for show that Statutes was guarantee the matriarche of the clan .
Fran and the boys have many contributed to the business Bankers .
laws if interest of first and before all to the education but she if is also fact know as auteure .
we basis many to have the opportunity of the meet in the years to come , because she is to the time young and dynamic and she not miss not of sillonner the country without v. .
she will a wonderful Lieutenant - Governor .
the appointment of Lynda Haverstock to the position of Lieutenant - Governor
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I not known not the new Lieutenant - Governor of the Alberta , but I wish to him add the better of the opportunity .
however , I known Lynda Haverstock , who just of be appointed in Saskatchewan .
Lynda Haverstock will certainly amend the vitae vitae type of the Lieutenant - Governor .
before the age of ninety years , she was already mother propagandist and had forsaken the school , but she is now become Dr. in psychologie .
she has past good number of years to work with the families agricultural in crisis , appearing of the advice to all sorts of levels .
this is to my notice a aspect important of this that she mill to his new duties of Lieutenant - Governor of the province of the Saskatchewan .
Lynda if is 1873 actively of policy during good number of years .
she was Leader of the Party Liberal of the Saskatchewan to little almost to the even time where I occupais this position to the Manitoba .
as the Liberal not were not very fortunate in these two provinces to this time - there , he we is often came of compatir together .
I believe that the Prime Minister has fact a good choice .
when these two women discuss been unsworn , he there will many of women that of men who occuperont the position of Lieutenant - Governor to the country .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Carstairs :
he has also fact a good choice since Ms Haverstock has many fought , as good number of people in Saskatchewan , and she knows well the problems faced the people of the Saskatchewan doing opposite to the hour current .
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , this is the a of the few time where I have someone something of kind to say to comments of the Liberal .
as you the know , the Prime Minister has appointed Ms Lynda Haverstock to the position of Lieutenant - Governor of the Saskatchewan . contemporaries just there replace a other great Liberal , Jack Wiebe .
Lynda if is battue in as that Leader of the Party Liberal of the Saskatchewan , but I have many of time for Lynda Haverstock .
she is for me a friend .
his husband and me fundamentally to the golf also often that we the can .
this is a wife of principles .
she incorporated his duties with a great dignity .
his case we shows that the appointments political working .
the week last , I have taquin? Lynda to the airport to comments of his appointment .
I have travelled with his husband of Toronto to Saskatoon and he me has said that his appointment had been announced .
I had thought that she going become pr?sentatrice of a Honouring - debate telephone .
as you the know , she has had of the problems with the new Leader of the Party Liberal , Jim Melenchuk - of the problems enough serious .
I have said to his husband that she could if venger because that he is now member of the caucus of the NDP and that , when she answering a of his bills of bill who request his signing , she could the look to the poubelle .
Lynda attempted that .
after the words kind of the Senator Carstairs to the place of Ms Haverstock , I like me join to the Senator for congratulate this last .
I know that she repr?sentera well the province .
his appointment is the a of the few that gave made the Prime Minister and that I envisaged fully .
visitors of Gallery
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I like add the welcome to two of our former colleagues who if find in the gallery this after - afternoon , to know the hon. Lorne Bonnell and the hon. Eugene Whelan .
of the Senators :
hear !
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
the ascertain tabled pursuant to the Act on the transport to the Canada Authorize some carriers Threat unambiguous to negotiate - Presented of the third report of the Committee of the transport and of the Communications
the hon. Lise Bacon , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications , presented the report following :
the Wednesday 15 December 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications has the honour of present his
third REPORT
your Committee , who has been authorized by the Senate le14 October 99 to examine , for in do report , pursuant to the subsection 47 ( 5 ) of the Act on the transport to the Canada , the ascertain tabled before this House the 14 September 99 , Authorize some carriers Threat unambiguous and some persons to negotiate and to conclude any agreement naively , request respectfully that the Committee be authorized to clerical the services of lawyers , of counsel technical and of all other staff felt necessary .
the budget was presented to the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration the jeudi9 December 99 . In his second report the Committee of the Economy Economy has fact the recommendation that 19 900 $ be lib?r?s for this study .
this report was adopted by the Senate the Tuesday 14 December 99 .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
read BACON
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when taken - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Bacon , the study of the report is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
energy , environment and resources natural
Presented of the second report of the Committee
the hon. Mira Spivak , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural , presented the report following :
the Wednesday 15 December 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural has the honour of present his
second REPORT
your Committee , authorized by the Senate the mercredi1er December 99 to study the questions who could telecom occasionally if 2:07 to the energy , to the environment and to the resources natural , request respectfully that the Committee be authorized to clerical the services of lawyers , of counsel technical and of all other staff felt necessary , and to if adjourn to across the Canada and to the abroad to the purposes of his inquiry .
the budget was presented to the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration the jeudi9 December 99 . In his second report , the Committee of the Economy Economy has noted that he welcomes to a study of the situation budget of the committees of the Senate and fact the recommendation that 6 / 12 of the funds accorded be lib?r?s of here the 10 February 2000 .
this report was adopted by the Senate the Tuesday 14 December 99 .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
MIRA SPIVAK
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when taken - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Spivak , the study of the report is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
the recommendations of the Commission Royal on the Peoples aboriginal relatively to the service government aboriginal
Presented of the report of the Committee of the Peoples aboriginal
the hon. Charlie Watt , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal , presented the report following :
the Wednesday 15 December 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal has the honour of present his
second REPORT
your Committee , who has been authorized by the Senate the Wednesday 24 November 99 , to commissioned a study and to present a report on the recommendations of the Commission Royal on the Peoples aboriginal relatively to the service government aboriginal , request respectfully that the Committee be authorized to clerical the services of lawyers , of counsel technical and of all other staff felt necessary to the purposes of his inquiry .
the budget was presented to the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration the jeudi9 December 99 . In his second report , the Committee of the Economy Economy has fact the recommendation that 14 750 $ ensure lib?r?s for his study .
this report was adopted by the Senate the Tuesday 14 December 99 .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
chairman chairman
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when taken - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Watt , the study of the report is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
the adjournment
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , and notwithstanding the section 58 ( 1 ) i ) of the Rules , I move :
that to 15 p.m. 30 today today , if the Senate not has not temin? his business , the Speaker interrompe the deliberations for adjourn the Senate ;
that , if a vote is deferred to 17 p.m. 30 today today , the Speaker interrompe the deliberations to 15 p.m. 30 for suspend the sitting until to 17 p.m. 30 for the implementation to the Senators of the vote deferred ; and
that all the points formula to the Order of the day and to the Paper of the Notice , who not have not been broader , remain in their Order present .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Group Parliamentary Canada - Japan
Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian to the tenth meeting bilateral Annual with the Group of friendship Canada - Japan
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the report of the delegation Canadian to the tenth meeting bilateral Annual between the Group Parliamentary Canada - Japan and the Group of friendship Canada - Japan , who if is held to Tokyo and to Nagasaki therefore that in the Island of Shikoku , to the Japan , of the 6 to the 13 November 99 .
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian to the meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe , held of the 17 to the 19 November 99
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table , in the two languages official , the report of the delegation Canadian of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe ( OSCE ) to the meeting of the office expanded of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe and to the Summit of the OSCE who if are held to Istanbul , in Artillery , of the 17 to the 19 November 99 .
the Association legislative Canada - China
Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian to the second meeting Annual , held of the 25 to the 31 October
the hon. Jack Austin :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table , in the two languages official , the third report of the Association legislative Canada - China regarding the second meeting bilateral who if is held to Ottawa , Toronto , Winnipeg and Victoria , to the Canada , of the 25 extending October 99 .
the Senate
the granting of a status bilingual to the city of Ottawa - Notice of motion
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the 16 December , I move that the city of Ottawa , capital of the Canada , should be officially bilingual .
the hon. Lowell Murray :
he we in has revealed the substance .
that not me craft however not sufficient .
we have need that he tabled his motion .
the Senator Gauthier :
honourable senators , I am prepared to table the motion in question .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I am of notice that he there has only a problem of communication .
as you the knows , the hon. Senator not committed not very well , of sort that he could there have a problem .
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
why not peers - we not of return to the notice of motion ?
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
I accept that we return to the notice of motion more later today today , when the Senator Gauthier able table the notice of motion according the rules .
his Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , to the time where the Senator Hays asked the leave of return more later for that the Senator Gauthier presented his notice of motion , this last was already prepared to the do .
the Senator Hays :
of agreed .
the Senator Gauthier :
honourable senators , if he there has confusion , this is can - be because that , to because of my surdit? , I must read on my computer portable before me this that the honourable senators come of say .
however , I have well a motion and I will the back to the page for that he the door to the Board .
his Hon. the Speaker :
he not will not necessary of return more later to the notice of motion , of agreed ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Finance
the limits of the mandate of the members of the Board of Investment of the Plan of Pension of the Canada
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government and door on the Plan of Pension of the Canada and the recommendations of the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade .
to the beginning of 1988 , the Committee of the Banking has undertaken a study exhaustive of the Board of Investment of the Plan of Pension of the Canada .
I have been happy of see that the government federal and the provinces approuvaient to the least a of our recommendations , who creating to limit the number of mandates that could duties a administrator .
in his response of September 1998 to the report of our Committee , the Minister has said that the tax of a limit discussed of the changes legislation .
if the honourable senators if recall the debate held to the then , he was incredibly pressing that the bill of bill on the Board of Investment of the Plan of Pension of the Canada be adopted .
the Minister said that the changes not could not be concerning because that he should amend the bill .
now that the Minister of the Finance has answered to this part of the bill of bill and that he has said that the government fixerait a length limited for the mandate of the directors , we not let no referring to the bill of bill in the announcement of the week last .
the officials that we have contact?s not were to the aware of no plan designed to present a bill of bill enclosing the measures announcements the week last .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not have knowledge of no bill of bill having been presented by the Minister of the Finance until to now .
he if can that he choisisse of the do more later , but I not have knowledge of other bill of bill in this time .
further to the substance of the reaching carried in 1998 , I the know .
I then however trying of communicate the question to the Minister and return with a response in time wanted .
the Senator Tkachuk :
the Leader can - he if Services to provide a response written expliquant why he not there has not of bill of bill and why the Minister of the Finance has said , in September 1998 , that he in should a ?
this is important because that we have believed the Minister , and this is why number of members of the Committee have designed the idea of annexer a letter to the bill of bill rather of adopt the amendment directly to the Committee .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I will try of confirm to the Senator if the government has the intention of present a bill of bill .
the transport
the restructuring of the industry of the transport Threat - Conformity effect of the monopoly of Air Canada
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , I have a question to ask to the Leader of the government to the Senate to the about of the transportation .
the senators know that the Committee Senate of the transport has fact a excellent analysis of the decision of the Minister of the Transport of suspend the application of the section 47 of the Act on the competition , this who has licences to the society Onex of propose a important restructuring of the sector of the transport Threat .
the Committee has found that no reason not certificate that the Minister suspende the application of this clause .
I me request , for begin , if the Leader of the government has a explanation .
this are all of the questions important .
the week last , I have asked of the questions to the Minister to the about of the increase of the rates of Air Canada , and you we said now that Air Canada trafique the points of his program for great travellers .
the Leader can - he we give the insurance that the Canadians not will not broy?s by the monopoly of Air Canada ?
who promotes the rights of the consumers in this restructuring ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , in this who respect the protection of the consumer Canadian , if a only transporteur dominait the market , we appliquerions the principles that the Minister has viewed and that I have repeated here to few occasions .
in the circumstances current , the transporteur overlooking need if conform to of the rules clear .
the Senator Oliver :
if the Parliament if adjourned until in February , who will if office of the file if the rates continue to increase and if you continues to amend the system of points ?
who will protect the consumers to this regard ?
the Senator Boudreau :
the agencies regulatory in place hand continue to if carry of their mandate .
of more , the commitment of the Minister of the Transport has been release to Air Canada in the words the more fearlessly .
I have fully confidence that the consumers will protected .
the hon. Consiglio Di Nino :
I me request if the Minister could we say if he there has of the new to the about of the statement of the Minister according which the carriers foreign would authorized to adjustments to the Canada , particularly in the field of the cabotage .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I not have nothing to add to this about for the time .
I me forward to this that the Minister presented under little a considering of measures .
I am course that they will substandard to the principles who have been viewed to several occasions to the behalf of the government .
these principles garantissent that the consumers are protected .
the Senator Di Nino :
the Minister could - he obtain for we a response on the question of the cabotage of here to this that the Senate reprenne his business the year next ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I bring share of the concern of the Senator and I attention his request of information .
he hands to the Minister of decide if he means deal separately and in public of a part of the measures or if he means propose a together of measures as a all .
the Defence national
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , met given the incidents rate in the newspapers these last months and including the headline of the Presse Canadian of today today according which he there would had to the least 10 ou12 incidents where of the doors , of the print plates , of the print of rotor and of other print would tomb?es of the helicopters Sea King , the government think he to the staff who must travel in these helicopters ?
I me request this that the population of Halifax - Western - where the Leader of the government to the Senate cite can - be if present during of the next election federal - think when the Sea King survolent their houses .
in despite of the notes of information of the Minister of the Defence , who say that he met eight years for complements the program of Alternative of the helicopters submarines , the Minister him - even states that he can lead to well a such program in five years .
I accept this deadline , but some conditions Visas in stake and I like have the comments of the Minister .
I have fact many of research on the question and I have spoke to many of people who know exactly what is the situation .
if the government is before the end of the months , you me said that he would possible of complete in 2005 .
the government ferra he this that he must before the end of the year ?
provides - he take the measures necessary before the end of December of this year ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have read this section in the newspaper and I had expected that the question would raised .
I have read carefully this section and I in have brought copy with me .
the Senator has all to fact reason of say that a series of incidents are Own in the past and that we in opens certainly still speak .
however , this series of incidents confirms that these helicopters are old and ach?vent their life useful .
I have noted that Colin Curleigh , a Brigadier General to the retirement and a man very respected in the cercles military of Halifax , was quoted in this section .
Mr. . Curleigh has confirmed that , to his notice , he would possible of have replaced the Sea King in 2005 .
he not has not added that he should that the appropriation ensure d?gag?s before No , of the least not in this section .
however , he has claimed that the Alternative could be concluded in 2005 .
I have been happy of hear a expert of the questions military as the Brigadier General Curleigh confirm the information that I have obtenue of other sources and according which the reliability of the aircraft the concern , by Opposition to the security of the persons .
he must say , in any justice others the Senator , that the Brigadier - General has added that the bill could be led to well in 2005 , but that he should for that a enormous showing policy .
I suppose that he was probably to the aware of the fact that the Minister of the Defence national has fact of this question his first priority .
I have good hope that he if is there of the kind of commitment necessary for do advance the program .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , he there has a other condition who will of fine with the plan of implementation in implement .
I respect enormous the Brigadier - General Curleigh that I known , as the Minister if in doubt , since 25 or 30 years .
I am in the parages since long .
I have known the Brigadier - General Curleigh when he was officer subalterne .
the question of the showing policy has been occasion .
if we want initiate the process , we must do a oriented order of have a choice .
are - we prepared to do the sacrifice of the benefits equity regional who could be necessary for achieve this objective ?
this is a question extremely important .
when we talking of security , we talking of reliability .
a accessoire of Sudan is piece of a Sea King in full flight , to Shearwater .
a panneau of drives is piece of a apparatus Sea King the 29 August , and the you not if in is view that to the during of a inspection after the atterrissage .
a other Sea King has lost a panneau different to the during of a flight between Thunder Bay and Kenora .
a balise of search if is d?tach?e by inadvertent of a modulateur , the 24 September , to the during of a flight beyond - above of the part core of the Maine .
he there will a War with the Americans , if we not do not attention .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the point that the Senator raises regarding the tip example well the grow of the process .
this is always , affiliated , a series of compromise .
must - he accommodating the memories for have the possible of buy to the within of the Canada ?
this are there of the questions experienced the Minister of the Defence national must weigh during of each acquisition of equipment military .
I not have not the jurisdiction required for measure the various factors to departure of the data that I diminish , but I am satisfied that the Minister takes of such decisions couramment for not important what Purchase .
he the limited certainly in the case of a acquisition also important that the Alternative of the Sea King .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , nothing not will fact before the end of the presented year , this who means that , in five years , we not regards not still this equipment if seriously necessary .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I please the Senator of not not learn a such conclusion .
I remains optimism .
I me am spoken with the Minister of the Defence national .
he me has fact share of his priorities who , I the hope , if transformeront in action .
the health
the increase of the Estimates in research on the cancer of the within
the hon. Marjory LeBreton :
honourable senators , since we talking of showing policy , the week last , you has could read in The Ottawa Citizen that a proposal introduced to the government transpired that he increase to 235 million of $ the Estimates aside to the research and to the treatment of the cancer of the within has been defeated , even if each knows that this is the form the more standard of cancer home the wife .
of even , in the book Red of 1997 , he is wrote clear that the cancer of the within fact part of the major problems in Equity of health .
the Leader of the government to the Senate can - he we say when the government will take to heart this serious illness and act to this about ?
the government has spent a billion of $ for resolve the contract of the airport Pearson and 764 million of $ for resolve the contracts after the cancellation of the undertake of the helicopters EH - EH he there has six years .
account held of these Estimates , how the government can - he justify the refusal of a amount of 235 million of $ on five years for help the women afflicted of cancer of the within ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the government takes very to the seriously the efforts Process for combat this illness and inevitable the persons who in suffering .
I not am not really to the aware of the request to which the Senator has fact referring .
in fact , I am a little confus further to the nature exactly of the request , to know if he if 13 of the Benefit direct of services medical underfunded by the government federal or if he there had a some participation of the share of the departments provincial of the Health .
unfortunately , I not have not these information before me and I am therefore F of give a response complete to the Senator .
the Senator LeBreton :
he has been many question of this case in the media .
I have seen someone something to this about in The Ottawa Citizen .
a friend to me me has said that he had read a section on this case in the Sun of Vancouver .
the government has rejected of the revers of the labour a suggestion filter of a of the members of his own caucus , who if find to be doctor and who includes certainly the serious of this illness .
yet , the government not if is not g?n? for literally 1,764 billion of $ for cancel of the contracts .
how the government can - he justify that to the women who suffering of the cancer of the within and to their families ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am a little disadvantaged here because that I not known not the details of the proposal .
if 13 - he of business of research ?
if 13 - he of the Benefit direct of services medical ?
the Senator LeBreton :
he if 13 of business of research .
the Senator Boudreau :
if he if 13 of the Benefit direct of services medical , in as that former Minister provincial of the Health , I not know really not how that could operate .
if he if 13 of business of research , I understand .
I attention also to the Senator the new program majeur of research in health who has been announced and who is supported by the government .
the proposal regarding the Instituts Canadian of research in health represents a initiative without precedent in our country in this who respect the research in health .
you could thinking that the cancer of the within able nervousness be included in this initiative major .
the Council of the Treasury
the increase of the Prestation national for children - Conformity devancement of the date
the hon. Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators , we apprenions in the speech of the Throne that the Prestation national for children going increase to departure of 2002 .
according of the information who have fact the subject of a identifies and who have been Message to the National Financial he there has few weeks , this legislation cost approximately demobilizing million of $ the first year and , a time implemented in his together , 23,850 million of $ each year by the following .
the Prestation national for children is remitted to the families poor of the Canada .
she their provides the assistance financial whose they have desperately need for if above of the food , of the Clothing and a housing .
even in approval account of the Estimates incidental and of the factors of prudence , the government if expected to registering a surplus of 5,5 billion of $ the year next .
the government has he of good reasons of not not increase soon the year next the Benefit remitted to the families poor of the Canada , who could then see the difference in their cheque to departure of July 2000 ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank the hon. Senator for his question and for his support to this program .
the government enregistrera a surplus and we we in r?jouissons all .
the deserves in works essentially to the Minister of the Finance .
however , the way whose the surplus will redistribu? will relatives in service of the various needs , who will , I poured , all very urgents and legitimate .
I not know not if the suggestion of the hon. Senator can be taken in consideration , but I signed to the convey to the persons lookout .
the Senator Cohen :
honourable senators , the government has succeeded to registering a surplus to the backs of the poor .
the only disadvantage of the Prestation national for children keeps to the fact that a agreed concluded with the provinces their allows of settle the money therefore paid to the recipients social .
the government can - he delay the Families of this program and ensure rather to this that any the increase portion be remitted not only to the workers poor , but also to all the families to low income ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I must return on the suggestion not based according which the surplus has been realized to the backs of the poor .
this surplus if explain in part by the dynamism of the economy .
our product national gross knows a growth without precedent .
that not is not a accident , but the result of political solid , sens?es and mod?r?es .
the growth economic is extremely strong .
in doing evidence of discipline on the plan budget , we have succeeded to in come to the point where the parliamentarians can discuss of the priorities experienced they want answer through to this surplus .
this is a situation wonderful .
in this who respect the details of the question , I not repeat not my response original if this not is for say that the suggestions of the hon. Senator will delivered to the Minister in question .
the cabinet of the Prime Minister
the Lieutenant - Governor of the Nova - Nova - Nomination of his XII. - First of a choice not partisan
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , more earlier today today in the framework of the statements of senators , we have had right to of the praise and of the comments to the about of the new Lieutenant - Governor of the Saskatchewan . It me brings to me ask when we can we expect to this that the Lieutenant - Governor present of the Nova - Nova , who sometimes to the end of his mandate , be replaced .
the Minister can - he we obligations to the advance for that we can prepare the statements who if imposeront to the opportunity of his replacement ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I am soulag? .
during a moment , I have thought that the hon. Senator possession his term to this position .
his departure would a great loss for our institution .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
there has he of other candidates of the Senate ?
the Senator Boudreau :
in any plain , I know to the fair who could be appointed for replace the Incumbent .
I not have not participated to of the discussions to this about .
human not me has asked who should be appointed to this position .
therefore , met given that human not me has nothing asked , I not then that assume that the appointment not is not imminente .
the Senator Comeau :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate has mentioned that I could be candidate .
this could be a good idea .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Comeau :
account held of the new direction that the Prime Minister of the Nova - Nova , the Peru Hamm , has taken for try of reduce the number of appointments societies in Nova - Nova , the Minister will he know or promettra he that the Prime Minister federal ask to the Prime Minister and to the members provincial of do of this appointment the a of the first appointments not societies to the Canada ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , if the you funds following to the proposal of the Senator , I me request if this would well the a of the first appointments not societies made to the Canada by a Prime Minister , all affiliations political confondues .
I not getting that render of the assumptions on the sense of the question .
we can be amorphous that the Prime Minister choisira , for be the new Lieutenant - Governor of the Nova - Nova , a human of a great quality and of a great integrity .
I am course that this are there the first criteria who the guideront .
I am course also that he undergo to of the consultation , but I not ?chafauderai not of assumptions on the structures official of these consultation .
I if extremely surprised if he not in discutait not with different persons , whose , by example , the Prime Minister of the province .
we can be amorphous that you choisira a Canadian , can - be even a Scotians - Scotians , of the more honourable .
Order OF orders
the business of the Senate
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I request that the second point to the Order of the day , to know the study of the bill of bill C - 21 , be the Prime to be developed in discussion .
bill of bill of credit No. 3 for 99 - 2000
second Reading
- honourable senators , the bill of bill C - 21 , also known under the behalf of Act of credit No. 3 for 99 - 2000 , provides of the appropriation of a amount total of 3,86 billion of $ , pursuant to the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) 99 - 2000 .
the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) is the Prime of the fiscal if ending the 31 March 2000 and is consistent to the forecasts of Estimates presented in the budget of the 16 February 99 .
the honourable senators if remember that the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) , 99 - 2000 , has been presented to the Senate the 16 November 99 . Conformity 17 November , the Senate the has referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national .
our Committee if is met the 23 and 30 November .
the 2 December , the Committee has included his report on the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) in the second report of the Committee of the Finance national .
the senators if recall that , when this report has been adopted the 8 December , be the week last , I have mentioned that this budget had fact the subject of a review detailed and that , the 23 November , our Committee had heard the evidence of the officials of the Secretariat of the Council of the Treasury , Richard Lieff and Andrew Lieff .
the Committee has found their evidence very useful and informatifs , as of usual .
I me touch now on some of the major positions who not had not been d?finis or enough accompany to the during of the study of the Estimates Main of the Estimates , 99 - 2000 , and who must now be approved by the Parliament to the words of the bill of bill C - 21 .
these funds enable to the departments and to the agencies of guarantee the degree of Conformity to the year 2000 of their systems and of ensure the state of preparedness international , the coordination core and the planning of the measures of emergency .
a other position important represents a statute of 485,7 million of $ to 65 departments and agencies in under of a clause of postponement for do opposite to of the Estimates of operating of first ensuing for 1998 - 99 .
this clause of postponement zeal the approach of the government , order of reduce the Estimates of end of fiscal and of improve the management of the encaisse of the Budgets of operating .
this clause allows to the managers of until in before , of a fiscal to extend who following , a amount Brunswicker represent until to 5 per of the budget of operating of the fiscal precedent .
the budget of operating includes the salaries , the Estimates of operating and the Estimates in capital high .
a other position important is the statute of 482,5 million of $ to six departments and agencies order of disseminating the activities of the Canada in this who has relates to the conflict to the Kosovo .
the Canada involved to the efforts of the community international since the beginning of the crisis , in February 1998 . Depuis that the situation has degenerated quickly in March 99 , the Canada makes of the efforts diplomatic and military , and he involved actively to the assistance humanitarian to the refugees .
someone 199,4 million of $ are lighten to the Secretariat of the Council of the Treasury , who must distribute of the funds to the departments and to the agencies for cover the effects of the conventions collective treaties to this day , therefore that for commissioned of other identify .
the negotiating collective has reprinted to the beginning of 1997 .
these funds represent the costs diff?rentiels r?troactifs and Standing relating to the salaries for 99 - 2000 .
he there has 149,5 million of $ for the departments of the Defence national and of the Affairs Veterans , in response to the recommendation of the Committee Standing of the Defence national and of the former Veterans of the House of the Commons , who had examined the questions affectant the life and the families of the members of the Forces Canadian .
this strategy includes several consistently , whose of the worthwhile of been and of the worthwhile for the young of the First Nations and the young Inuit , and she is represents on the trade and the development international , the Science and the Technology , and of other programs related for the young .
a amount of 112,2 million reaches to four departments and agencies for the measures of restructuring and of Humane of the fisheries Canadian designed to relieve the impact on the communities and the population of the Coast is of the Elimination of the Strategy of the fish of extension of the Atlantic .
of the measures of restructuring and of Humane are also ensuing in the case of the fishing to the salmon on the Coast west .
honourable senators , I in just now to the major positions who disquieting only of the departments or of the agencies .
a amount of 108 million of $ is allocated to the Department of the Development of the resources human for the Fund of the Canada for the creation of jobs , this who reflects the commitment that has took the government of if attack to the problems faced doing opposite the Canadians in the regions where the rate of unemployment is high .
this Department if emploiera , in closely cooperation with the other levels of government , the sector private , the agencies of development regional and the organizations community , to stimulate the employment .
a amount of 84,1 million of $ is assigned to the Department of the Affairs foreign and of the Trade international for redistribute between some provinces a share of the revenues revenues of the rights paid by the exporters of lumber of implement .
the Department of the Heritage Canadian receives 70 million of $ for improve the programs of support to the languages official in rolls the assistance direct granted to the development of the communities minority and in finan?ant the agreements federal - provincial , essentially in the field of the education of the language of the minority and of the language second .
honourable senators , the only section not budget is the credit of 50 million of $ grappling to the Defence national in the purpose of increase provisoirement the advance in the account of funds of capital for that the Department can pay his troop Canadian in position to the abroad to the case where the from to the year 2000 poserait of the difficulties of feature .
I will to present you communicate some information on the changes to the forecasts of the Estimates legislation .
the major positions suffer doing the subject of identify of the Estimates set are the following .
the Department of the Agriculture and of the Agroalimentaire receives a Matter of 179,5 million of $ for pay the producers in under of the different elements of the Act on the protection of the income agricultural .
these programs have for subject Prime of guarantee the income agricultural for help the producers to gradually their income and to manage their risks .
many of these programs are administered by the provinces or by of the agencies or boards provincial .
a Matter of 182,3 million of $ has been awarded to the Department of the Finance to the payments of the Payments of equalization paid to the provinces .
this increase reflects the changes op?r?s in the forecasts on expelling are refers these Payments , including the population and the revenues tax of a province given .
the 12.5 billion of $ planned original in the Estimates Main of the Estimates of the Department of the Finance for the determined to the provinces to the payments of the Transfer Canadian in Equity of health and of programs social have been reduced of 108,5 million of $ .
he if is of cover the increase in value of the transfer in points of tax , due to of the revenues more important revenues of the tax on the income of the special and of the companies .
the CHST allows of help financially the provinces in the areas of the health , of the education post , of the assistance social and of the services social .
he there has a new credit of 79 million of $ for the Department of the Finance , for of the Payments of Alternative to the payments of the programs Standing , to because of the recouvrements more high that planned in the Estimates Main .
the recouvrements more high reflect the increase of the income staff and of some other Payments of taxes .
honourable senators , these positions that I just of describe represent a increase overall of 174,3 million of $ , which , a time shirked the reduction of three million of $ split between of other departments and agencies whereas in this Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) 99 - 2000 , if pretends to a increase net of 171,1 million of $ .
honourable senators , I thank the new chairman of our Committee , the Senator Lowell Murray , of his expeditiously , of his resume to the work and of his helpful caring .
I thank also a veteran who has reprinted of the service to the Committee , the Senator Doody , who has already served the position prestigious of chairman of this Committee .
that said , honourable senators , and having thanked all the members of the Committee for their good work , I like now prier all the honourable senators of approve the granting of appropriation to Majesty Majesty and to the government of Majesty Majesty in giving the bill of bill C - 21 order that the government of the Canada can vaquer to his Affairs .
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator Cools of his words comfort .
I him realize the courtesy , but not only for the form because I the thank sincerely of this explanation complete and detailed of this bill of bill of appropriation .
she has greatly facility my work .
honourable senators , let - me of explain in what context the Senate studying these measures .
well heard , in under of the Constitution , we have the right of amend , or even of reject , all bill of bill whose we are before .
however , the Senate has recognized that the granting of appropriation , the tax of taxes and the measures financial in General doing part of the prerogatives the more jalousement gard?es of the House of the Commons .
the Senate ?volutif of the after - War has found the average of exercise his responsibilities to payments of House equal of the Parliament all in complying the prerogatives of the House of the Commons in these areas .
by therefore , we throw before all the budget to the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national .
the Committee of the Finance national not problems not necessarily all the programs .
he attempts of study the Estimates of the Administration public federal in a perspective of policy administrative particularly , of sort that the mandate not can not be CRTC .
the mandate must be General for the study of the appropriation and of the forecasts .
that not prevent not a Committee Senate ...
generally , the Estimates of the Estimates is referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national .
the Committee the examine and in makes account to the Senate .
after what , the Senate adopt generally the bill of bill of appropriation who we sometimes generally a little more later of the House of the Commons .
I draw the attention of the honourable senators on our report , where several questions important are raised by the Committee .
the Senator Cools has mentioned the 0,5 billion of $ that the government has required in the Estimates of the Estimates Supplementary for solve the problem of the from Island year 2000 .
we have also pointed the cleaners of loans lending to of the governments foreign .
the Committee was of notice that the government would should develop a series of criteria who we number licences of determine the relevance of any cleaners of loans to the future .
he would been well also that the you can see a link between the cleaners of the debts of yesterday and our policy of borrowing of tomorrow , but this is there a point of view all to fact staff that I outlining .
that door the amount required to this end during the fiscal aware to approximately 132 million of $ , whose 70 million of $ seem be lighten to the new vessels of the Embassy of the Canada to Berlin .
we like know where hand the 60 other million of $ and the Department has promised of we enlighten more later on this question .
we are impatients that he the convey .
the question of the recovery of the costs for the inquiry instituted by the government on the crash of the flying of Swissair on the coasts of the Nova - Nova has been raised .
the Senator Ferretti Ferretti has length insisted on the fact that he needed encourage the government to continue of clamour a allowance of Swissair .
to long term , the Committee is of notice that he must change the sections relevant of the Convention of cardiology order that the carriers Threat and their assureurs assume a some responsibility for the investigations and the prospect following to the accidents Threat .
you has found that the Canada is particularly vuln?rable on the plan financial because that the number of prohibit in his space Air is more high compared to extend of other country .
this question we respect to the more senior point , and the Senator Ferretti Ferretti has reason of ask that the Department of the Affairs foreign if there circumstances soon that possible .
honourable senators , the increase of the funds necessary to the program of control of the weapons to gun has certainly drew our attention to the Committee , and the Senator Tkachuk has spoken the about during the period of the questions few days after that the Committee if be met .
a other question that we have pressing among as of other - and I attirerais your attention on all the report - is the great question of the Payments paid under the regime of the Act on the responsibility of the state .
this is the a of the subjects favoris of the Senator Doody , and he the has continued very effectively , my faith , all as a sure number of other colleagues during our hearings of Committee .
the point raised by the Senator Doody was that you not amorphous no clause in the Estimates of the Estimates for the case on the equity line , that the government has lost before the courts - for say the things such that they are .
we peers all , I believe , that this is a question of prudence of the share of the government .
in this case - side , he has amass? the money in the credit of the salaries and of the benefits social , where human not could course not the find .
the senior officials we have well said that if you their had asked of the questions in the intervalle , they the number esquiv?es .
if the you had known how of money the government siding of side to the case where he invested his because , the Position legal , for not not say policy , of the government would course been many more precarious .
we understand the context in which the government has tranquillement amass? of the money without front in chiffrer the amount before the day redout? where he would should pay .
that met said , however , during a sure number of years , the government has developed of side of the hundreds of million of $ , to reason of as by year , in the credit of the salaries and of the benefits social .
no of between we not if in is view and no of between we not has asked of question to this about .
now that the case hook to his end - the government will still quelquefois on the sellette - the government moneys the money pursuant to the section 30 of the Act on the responsibility of the state .
the Parliament not will not the less fortunate of if deal on the question or of discuss of the amount paid , or of the way whose he will paid , or of the reasons for expelling he is paid , or even of the policy of the government , and therefore of following .
this is a question who has tracass? the best drain of the Committee , be the senators Bolduc , Doody , Cools and Moore , including .
I not better not appoint these senators , because all the members of the Committee if are many involved to this question .
we have pointed our intention of there return also a day .
I not know not this that that occasionally , but I believe that the question is important .
honourable senators , after have followed the remarks executing by our colleague , the Senator Cools , and if you jetez a suddenly of helpful on the report , better still , if you read the report that the Committee has presented on the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates on which speaks this bill of bill of appropriation , you agree , I the hope , that the Committee has examined very carefully this budget and that you can in any conscience approve this bill of bill .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill is read a second time . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a third time ?
the Senator Cools :
honourable senators , as we the know , a deadline of a day is required for move to the third Reading of the bill of bill , but I believe that he there has a real consensus of the two sides of the House for move soon now to the third Reading .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
not .
the Senator Murray :
I not think not that he be possible of give our leave .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave not is not granted .
( on the motion of the Senator Cools , the third Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in implement of conventions tax
third Reading - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Hervieux - Hervieux , C , seconded by the hon. Senator Gauthier , seconded to the third Reading of the bill of bill S - 3 , Act rigour in implement a agreed , of the conventions and of the protocoles concluded between the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzb?kistan , the Syria , the Japan and the Luxembourg , in view of avoid the duplicates Socialist and of prevent the evasion tax in Equity of taxes on the income .
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , the bill of bill S - 3 has been referred to two committees .
I not speak not of the decision of the Committee of the Banking to the regard of the bill of bill or of the study that he him has aside .
to first view , the bill of bill S - 3 is , essentially , a legislation designed to avoid the double tax .
he respect several country with capably we have the intention of nothing or in capably we want invest , and he is therefore in the interest hills of the Canada and of the country responsible of adopt a such legislation legislative .
honourable senators , the bills of bill allowing of avoid the double tax not are not a reviews .
the Parliament in receives since strong long .
as the have indicated the officials of the Agency of the income , their analysis includes two consistently for ensure to this that the citizens who sleazy of the Affairs in of other country not ensure not mobile two time .
the purpose of the bills of bill in Equity of double tax is of see to this that he not there gave not of aim tax .
the bills of bill of this type limited to the government more of leviers him allowing of ensure to this that all the taxes exigibles ensure surveys .
however , I am spend that the bill of bill S - 3 gave fact the subject of the kind of review referred not have not been submitted of other bills of bill in the past , well that that would should be the case .
he there has a exception dignified of mention , and this is the agreed on the aim tax who has been examined to the Committee of the Affairs foreign , rather that to the Committee of the Banking , in May 1998 . If my memory is faithful , the agreed if limited to of the country as the Croatia , the Chile and the Vietnam .
the Committee of the Affairs foreign has underlined that the you not party not only if preoccupied of tax and that the you party address the legislation legislative in approval account of all the aspects of the policy foreign .
as the know the honourable senators , after have began to deal with a country , he sometimes in of many case that we in proficiently to accept their structures , their values and their attitudes .
to the time of the review by the Committee , the Senator Di Nino and of other members of the Committee , whose the Senator Grafstein , if I me remind well , have expressed the notice that we should have the insurance that the country with capably we covenant of the agreements on the aim tax persons the structures update , including of the courts independent .
they must recognize the rule of the right .
honourable senators , you has many insisted on the question of the confidentiality .
if of the businesses must do case addition - sea and that in reason of a agreed allowing of avoid the double tax they are fairest of negotiates their Finance and their guideline of operating to a other country , we must be safest that these country not use these information that to the purposes ensuing in the agreed tax and not for of other grounds .
the experience me has learned that in of many other country , the confidentiality is a concept who not there not .
if a Department receives of the information , he is least respectueux of the rules of procedure , of the confidentiality and of the rights of the special and of the citizens .
fortunately , the number of these country falling , but they are still a about of concern .
in May 1998 , even if we had adopted the bill of bill allowing of avoid the double tax , we have said that the Department of the Affairs foreign should proceed to a analysis complete for see if the country with which we find sign a agreed allowing of avoid the double tax had a record acceptable in Equity of respect of the rights of the human and of the guarantees update in Equity of provision , of practice and of procedure .
we must we ensure that when we covenant the agreed in question , we not between not to hurt to our citizens and to the citizens of this country .
this observation has been made in this chamber .
we have pointed to the Department of the Affairs foreign therefore that to the other departments responsible and to the Senate that all the agreements of this type should be internally to the light of that .
honourable senators , I have said to the representatives of the Affairs foreign that a bill of bill allowing of avoid the double tax not should not be presented to the Parliament without a analysis complete of the respect of the rights of the human by the country in question .
you we has guaranteed that this kind of analysis going in the sense of this that the government of the then occupation as a good practice .
however , the suggestions that we have made to the opportunity of this bill of bill not have not had of following , seems he .
I me delighted of the fact that the Senator Staunton - Lynch gave defended with many of vehemence the question of the respect of the rights of the human , and the Senate should the in thank .
he has left in question the choice of the Committee referred this bill of bill would referred .
must - he the refer strictly to the Committee of the Banking or , this who is more logical , to the Committee of the Affairs foreign ?
I am pleased that the Senate gave referred this bill of bill to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
in his intervention , the Senator Staunton - Lynch has indicated that we should , in this chamber , join our actions day to our talk words to the about of the respect of the rights of the human .
I think that we should hold account of these comments .
in this chamber , we are very proud of our reports .
when these reports are adopted to the unanimously , I am more confiante of the fact that we believe that the viewed of policy and the recommendations made in our reports have of the value and that the government should in hold account .
in our report on the Asia - Pacific , to the page 97 , we have said that the policy foreign keeps account of factors own to promote the respect of the rights of the human , as the good management of the Affairs public , the democratization and the society civil , the rule of the right and the need of a correction independent .
the list not is not exhaustive , but he there has held of hold account of these factors before that we not we engagions in of the agreements and of the relations with of other country .
to the page 109 of our report , we have spoke of the principles of a policy Canadian consistent in Equity of rights of the human .
he becomes of more in more obvious that the questions of trade and of Investment not should not be examined alone of the rights of the human and of the democracy .
we have pointed in our report a remarks introduced by the hon. Lloyd Axworthy , in which he has said that the rights of the human and the policy foreign menaient to a approach ecumenist raisonn?e to the regard of the trade international and of the Affairs foreign .
by therefore , as the Committee the has mentioned in his report , the trade and the Investment not are not took alone .
he must the consider squeeze with the rights of the human .
he is extremely important , honourable senators , that the image that plans the government of the Canada in the world fear to a approach abrogating , consistent and raisonn?e to the regard of the rights of the human .
he not must not mixed the rights of the human of the other questions .
the rights of the human inspire all our plans of action and all the laws .
we must examine all the issues .
before the Committee of the Affairs foreign , the representatives of the new Agency of the income have influencing that they not had examined that the two questions of the evasion tax and of the double tax , because this is the mandate who their has been children .
however , a of the problems , this is that we not have more of Department of the Revenue .
the new agency not is not schemes to the same practices and to the same principles that a Department plain must meet .
the employees of the Department of the Revenue not have not the same responsibilities to assume .
I points that because , in the chapter of introduction of his report of November 99 , to the page 18 , the Auditor General has said :
however , I fear that the government not gave not considered enough their impact on the parliamentary of accountability and the Economy .
of by their nature , these mechanisms sells in question the relations redditionnelles compulsory where the ministers education account of their political and programs to the Parliament and , by the through of the Parliament , to the citizens in General .
met given that of the third are parties commission to these mechanisms , the ministers not are never fully responsible of them .
in some case , you has intentionnellement established of the mechanisms of way totally independent of the ministers , well that they carry doubly of the funds and of the powers federal .
without parliamentary of accountability and without Economy update , these mechanisms can hurt to the ability of the Parliament of examine in depth the use who is made of the powers federal and of protect the right of the citizens to a parliamentary of accountability of the share of the government .
the Agency of the income highlights in implement a policy tax .
she is underpinnings of a mandate bare and she the follows .
when you has asked to these people if they if concern of questions such the rights of the human , the healthy management of the Affairs public and the ability constitutional , they have answered that they if in remettaient to the Affairs foreign .
if the Department of the Affairs foreign evidence that he there has presence of a relationship diplomatic with a government , the Agency of the income if in keeps there .
that not fact not part of his mandate , for the moment of the least .
the Department of the Affairs foreign is therefore the body who should examine these country order of see if this is the kind of country with capably we should sign of the agreements international .
of after the testimony of senior officials of the Affairs foreign , he is clear that he not there not to the within of their Department a process independent and abrogating who unacceptably of determine that the country with capably we concluons of the agreements for avoid the double tax are well of the country with capably we wish alters and expand our relations .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch has quoted the example of the Ouzb?kistan .
the record of the Ouzb?kistan not is not copy .
the Ouzb?kistan is still tied by the vestiges of the Union Soviet .
he has well brought few changes , but he not has not amended substantially his way of manage the Affairs public .
you there has registered of the abuse of the rights of the human and the situation of the rights of the human is still such in Ouzb?kistan that that should we sort .
by elsewhere , the Ouzb?kistan has signed of the pactes international the positively to meet the rights of the man .
we have to the least there a indication that the country acceptance of options his practices internal to a control international .
the Union Soviet him has left a heritage disastrous on the plans source and policy .
this who me concern , this is that human not if is concern of check systematically the situation of the country listed in the bill of bill S - 3 .
I not know not how of other country , by example the Algeria , the Bulgaria , the Syria , the Japan , the Lebanon and the Luxembourg , if compare to the Ouzb?kistan , and I not know not where they if Kraft by report to a standard World in Equity of rights of the man .
I not known not the principles or practices who we created of decide if such or such country deserves that we traitions with him .
human not seems have dependent the problem .
well that I respectful of agreed with the principle of the conventions designed to avoid the duplicates Socialist , I remains outset that we not should not distinguished of country in particular as that we not we are not amorphous , in good government that we sober , of his integrity .
he would unfair of suspending a country of the list of the bill of bill S - 3 without have to the pre constant systematically all the other with capably we have concluded a such agreement .
as you the knows , the Portugal and the Luxembourg , by example , are of the country who , as the Canada , are members of the NATO and of the OECD and therefore , we are relatively safest of their political .
the Canada has always took as reference the Declaration Universal of the rights of the man and if is tried of judge the country by report to a standard similar .
we not take no country particular to payments of example .
when we not staffs not with a country or when we damning of have of the relations with a country , this is that , after the have felt according some principles , we feel that this country not has not satisfy to the criteria .
he is clear , of after our analysis of the bill of bill S - 13 , that the government not has not established of standards .
the government not has not respected the requests that him had arises the Committee order that he Municipal of the standards .
he would therefore unfair of pointer a country of the doigt to this stage .
I not think not that we should judge the people and the country to the accident .
he must judge of manner consistent and abrogating .
this approval is linked to the respect of the rights of the human , to the principle of the good government , to the rule of the right and to the independence of the correction whose I have spoke .
the message that we sending also to our citizens , this is that they must meet the rule of the double tax and that they must provide of the information financial to a other country .
we must we ensure that , when we covenant these agreements who if apply to the businesses who informatics report do case to the abroad , we begin of means of ensure to this that the information declared by our businesses not ensure not used to of the purposes malicious and that our citizens not ensure not victims of measures or of treatment who would contrary to the standards Canadian .
honourable senators , I have raised the question more of a time , with force I the hope .
the bill of bill S - 3 shows that we not have not succeeded the test .
by therefore , I could instalments say that of other country have failed also .
we must put of the Order home we .
the Minister Axworthy talking of a policy foreign based on of the principles .
I request to the government of the Canada and to the Department of the Affairs foreign of put these words in application for that , when we basis before of the next bill of bill in Equity of double tax , the officials carry we ensure that of the standards exist and that they are respected by the country with capably we covenant the agreements .
the hon. Nicholas W . Taylor :
honourable senators , I have listened with interest the Senator Andreychuk , who has spoke of experience .
I am a member recent of the Committee of the Affairs foreign , but , in the framework of my work in the world of the Affairs , I am went in a 20 of country .
I acknowledge that he not is not also easy that he craft of be sitting to the Senate and of speak of the sense moral and of the rights of the human in the other country and of measure their degree of respect of these rights according our own standards .
that me fact thinking to the legendary vowels of Procruste .
when the invited of the home were too great for the reads , Procruste their coupait the feet , and if they were too grandchildren , he their ?tirait the members .
to some ways , hence the kind of argument that the senators of the other side doing argue ; as Procruste , they believe that the country must if adapt to our reads , fault of what we not should not do case with him .
we must examine some aspects as the environment and the trade , and not only extend of the rights of the human .
to the over of the years , I have found that the better way of do move of good ideas , this is by the through of the trade .
that goes can - be to the then where the Portugais have began to if pay in Africa , in Asia and therefore of following .
the Senator Andreychuk :
that we has given the slavery !
the Senator Taylor :
yes , a great number of bad ideas have also been import?es in the New third .
however , the trade seemed be the better way of improve the rights of the human and the activity human in each region .
he had of the effects benefit .
you not needy compare this who if recovered to the 16 century to the situation current .
we have fact of the progress and he seems that we the must primarily to the trade - and not not because that of the country decision that they are best that the other and that they deny of if associate with of other States to least that these last not becoming also good that them .
this is a way 3:00 of address the question .
if he marshalling , but is still in de?? of the level hoped , we should the encourage in muddy to nothing with him .
however , if he r?gresse and removes of the people of rights whose they enjoyed a generation modified , we should can - be use the trade as a average we allowing of the hire to meet more their environment and the rights of the human .
my training of g?ologue me value can - be to thinking that we must determine if they varies or r?gressent .
if a state marshalling , even if he not has not still reached our level , he worth can - be the worthy of nothing with him .
the Senator has spoke of the Ouzb?kistan .
we we are prominent all two in this part of the world .
this not is can - be not a good idea of choose this country because that he if find to side of the Afghanistan , who is gouvern? by a regime taliban .
I delicacies even the Canada to the challenge of be very tolerant if he had of the Veterans talibans to his border , patrouillant the mountains .
not forget not the problems who confronting the government of the Ouzb?kistan .
he not has not to active the railway with of the groups harshness and comfort as the Conservatives , the NDP - discard or the Liberal ; his situation is all other .
by therefore , he is a little unfair of say that he should use the even system .
personally , I am of notice that the Ouzb?kistan fact of the progress outstanding .
for have past of the time in Iran and in Afghanistan , I am in legislation of say that the Ouzb?kistan is in advance on them of several years - light to some ways .
for in return to our about , he becomes difficult of measure the progress registered .
we not can that trying of determine if these country varies and we remind the importance historic of the trade since of the time imm?moriaux .
if the you account to the first authors grecs who ?crivaient on the influence of the Gr?ce in Africa , you note that this is the trade who has licences to the culture and to the ideas of if propager of a region to the other .
he must have confidence and believe that if the ideas and the crops are good , this are they who finiront by survive , rather that of the ideas and of the crops funestes who doing that a society r?gresse on the plan of the respect of the rights of the human .
of way general , honourable senators , despite few reculs here and there , the humanity seems advance and this is to the trade that she the must .
he sometimes sometimes that she the hundred to the missionaries , be before , be after , but the trade step almost always the way the more effective and the more impartiale of do circulation the ideas and the crops .
I not am not of agreed with these persons or these groups who trying of we say , here to the Canada , that we not should not deal with a country determined because that he not reached not some standards .
I continues of believe that to long term , the trade obey the Canada and the world best .
the Senator Andreychuk :
honourable senators , the Senator Taylor acceptance he of answer to a question ?
the Senator Taylor :
certainly , even if I am very served this night .
the Senator Andreychuk :
I am some that that not takes not many of his time .
the Senator we presented a argument that I have heard he there has five years in originating of the government who Compensating that he must mixed the trade of the question of the respect of the rights of the human .
more recently however , the Minister Axworthy has clear established that he there has a link between the trade and the rights of the human .
the Senator has raised to fair payments a idea with which I am all to fact of agreed , this is - to - say that he should try of see if a country if improving or fact of the efforts for if improve to the chapter of the rights of the human , or if he r?gresse in this field .
my question includes two consistently .
all of first , the Senator not believes - he not that the policy of the government of lier the two areas is fair ?
second , not is - he not of notice that the standard whose I talking equivalent to the principle that he had mentioned , this is - to - say of determine if a country marshalling or r?gresse in the file of the rights of the human ?
the Senator Taylor :
honourable senators , I am happy that the Senator anthologies that we must assessment differently the country who argue and varies and those who r?gressent or suppriment of the rights .
certainly , the weapon ultimate of the trade , this are the sanctions .
we have had Order to the sanctions trade in Africa , though some say that they not have not had many of effects supportive .
we have had Order to the sanctions in Bosnia ; this is this who has caused the problem of the Kosovo in a some legislation .
I not want not have the air of a kidnapped , but I not locks not also closely the trade and the rights of the human that not the fact our Minister of the Affairs foreign , according the hon. Senator .
I not am not realized to this point .
consider a little our relationship with the China .
our trade commercial with the China are many and this trade we quoted many of money , but the standard implemented to this country seems postpone of similar that we produced for the Ouzb?kistan , where we not achetons that few cuirs and peaux .
words said , we must ensure to this that a economy important in some regions not admit not all sorts of effects d?l?t?res .
I believe all of even that the trade is the better way of improve of such situations .
the Minister of the Affairs foreign not me has not poses that a region whatever if is better scope because that we had developed end to our trade commercial with she .
( on the motion of the Senator Staunton - Lynch , the debate is adjourned . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , he is now 15 p.m. 30 and , pursuant to the Order of the Senate , the Senate if adjourned to 14 p.m. tomorrow .
( the Senate if adjourned to 14 p.m. tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
fledged Session , Session Session ,
volume 138,481 , Issue 23
the Thursday 16 December 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
' ' '
tributes to the opportunity of his retirement
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe , held of the 13 to the 15 October 99
these delay who have dismantling our history
the Senate
the state of health of the Senator Willie Adams
visitors of Gallery
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
security and services of Intelligence
Tabled of the response of the government to the report of the Committee Special
the situation current of the regime financial Canadian and international
Presented of the report of the Committee of the Banking and of the trade
Economy Economy , Budgets and Administration
Tabled of the third report of the Committee
the Act on the Defence national Position Act on the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques Conformity Code criminal
report of the Committee
the Act on the statistics Position Act on the Archives national of the Canada
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the Union Parliamentary
Tabled of the report of the Group Canadian of the Union Parliamentary on the 102e conference Parliamentary held to Berlin , Germany
Tabled of the report of the Group Canadian of the Union Parliamentary on the 54e session of the Assembly general of the Nations Nations held to New York
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian to the conference of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe held of the 13 to the 15 October 99
the Association Parliamentary Canada - France
Tabled of the report of the ninety - ninth meeting Annual of the delegation Canadian held of the 8 to the 15 September 99
the Union Parliamentary
report of the Group Canadian of the Union Parliamentary on the 102e conference Parliamentary held to Berlin , in Germany - Notice of inquiry
PERIOD PERIOD question
the agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the fate of the farmers c?r?aliers of the Western - Position response to the report of the Committee of the House of the Commons
the difficulties of the c?r?aliculteurs of the Western
the difficulties of the c?r?aliculteurs of the Western - Conformity Awaiting of a response of the Prime Minister
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the Ontario - Position Act on the restructuring regional - Position determination of the power legal of the city of Ottawa
the transport
the agreed on the Administration of the airport international of Halifax - Conformity obligation of the government federal of control the nature acide of the ardoise
the Peoples aboriginal
request of response to the report of the Committee on the former Veterans aboriginal
Order OF orders
bill of bill of appropriation No. 3 for 99 - 2000
third Reading
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in implement of conventions tax
third Reading
bill of bill on the Agreement final nisga' has
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the Assent Royal
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Continued of the debate
the Act on the Immigration
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Stands of the debate
languages official
Adopted of the second report of the Committee Joint Standing
review of the regulatory
Adopted of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing
the Union Monetary European
the report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign - Stands of the debate
the ascertain tabled pursuant to the Act on the transport to the Canada Authorize some carriers Threat unambiguous to negotiate and to conclude any agreement naively - Adopted of the third report of the Committee of the transport and of the Communications
the Ontario
the bill of bill on the restructuring regional - Conformity refusal of declare Ottawa officially bilingual - Inquiry - Suspended of the debate
Assent Royal
the Ontario
the bill on the restructuring regional - Conformity refusal of the government spend of adopt the recommendation designed to do of Ottawa a city bilingual - Inquiry - Continued of the debate
the recommendations of the Commission Royal on the Peoples aboriginal relatively to the service government aboriginal
Adopted of the report of the Committee of the Peoples aboriginal
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of examine the state of the system of health
Affairs foreign
Authorized to the Committee of until the date of the Tabled of his report final on the study of the amendment embraced to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
the recommendations of the Commission Royal on the Peoples aboriginal relatively to the service government
Authorized given to the Committee of until the Tabled of the report final
the Senate
the granting of a status bilingual to the city of Ottawa - Adopted of the motion
the wishes of No
adjournment
the SENATE
the Thursday 16 December 99
the sitting is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker met to the Chair .
prayers .
tributes to the opportunity of his retirement
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , I like , to the behalf of the Senate , say a word of Adieu Special to a man that I am proud of power call friend , Mr. Richard Flame , our Clerk Deputy , who takes his retirement .
I not like not that Richard we leaving before that he be said publicly how I me fiais to the wisdom , to the know and to the skills that he siding generously to my clause , and that , well before that I not between to the Senate .
in read his vitae vitae yesterday , I have learned that he had began his career here in as that page , in 1956 .
this is the year even where I quittais teethed for a adventure who party me takes , in company of other young students Canadian and U.S. , a little across to the country and until to the Nations Nations during a week .
I had then 16 years and I not was never processes more to the is that cardiology Hat .
but we have all the two attrap? the virus who instalments these walls and we in have fact the held of work of any a life .
the first priority was , well course , of meet a some Jean Sutherland , who was considered with all the respect who probably as , and I quote , to the lady who heads the Senate to .
of after this that I have could hear to the then , she seemed Establishing a part key of the good operating of these site .
jean Sutherland had a young attended who knew to little almost all on the operating of the Senate , the steps of the legislation and the traps in capably can let a government n?gligent who not respect not the procedure in Equity of consultation and of cooperation .
he was there also for prevent the people as me of emb?ter Jean Sutherland and he party therefore be to the aware of all this that she knowing .
the attended in question , this is well course Richard Flame .
addition his skills , Richard was a man charming and we are immediately scarce of very good friends , even if I the died in principle when someone something walked of go difficulty .
I broaden until to say that the Senate of the Canada not has never had of employee also loyalist that Richard Flame .
little importait the pressure , this who him importait , this was that all works well in this place and not not the concerns of his occupants , what that demanded their party .
I not the have never seen losing patience or his sense of the humour , contrary to me .
I regret that he gave decided of we leave , but I know that his family real - Ethel , Lesley and Steven - will aspects of be the centre of his attention .
I want ensure to Richard that we basis always friends .
I him directed all my best wishes for the new challenges and the new aventures that the life him contingency .
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , when Richard Flame is came here in 1956 , he knowing part of a new group of senators who accused of the people as Chubby Power , David Croll , Hartland Molson , Dixon McQueen Fergusson and my father , Harold Connolly .
to departure of the time where he has began to work in this chamber , I have began for my share to come visit this chamber , because I illustrate frequently with my father to the during of his first years here .
I know if Richard the knows , but this is to because of me that a Cadillac black in has struck a other before the entry of the Senate when the wife of the Senator Basha has insisted for that I conduise the Cadillac of the Senator Basha .
him and me we memories that to the then , he there had still of the business of sculpture in during in the couloirs .
you montait and d?montait the ?chafaudages and of the day to the next apparaissait a new gargouille .
this are the memories that I have in as that young daughter of 12 to 15 years errant around of this place .
I sharing these memories with Richard Flame .
honourable senators , he there has a link Special between the position of Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate and the position served by Richard - this is - to - say until to the announcement of his retirement .
each day , normally around of 10 or 11 p.m. , Richard Flame plaques in the office of the Leader Deputy with the to scroll to .
many of senators know this that this is , but this are these extensive struggling of paper that boat the Leader Deputy of the government and the Leader of the Opposition .
they indicate this who will if produce in this chamber .
I me assoyais with Richard and we deliberate if that probably for this day - there .
by that , I want say that Michelle MacDonald , my tireless , had great happy to seek the mistakes of Richard .
we not in dealing not very often , but when we the Campaign , we we amusions of the fact that the document not be not came under a form perfect as of usual .
Michelle if joined to me for say that these times deplore in my office we missing many .
Richard was a professional consumed .
he had a ability incredible of listen , of take note of this that he had heard and of do all this that he could for facilitate a small little the life not only to the Leader Deputy and to the Leader of the government to the Senate , but also to all the other senators in this chamber .
I had need of his support and of his assistance , and he me the has counsel welcome with affection and humour .
I you thank for these years during expelling we have worked together , Richard .
you missed we miss .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , he there has here a intrigued that we not had not view .
I believe that this event has many marqu?M. Flame .
honourable senators , I have of the difficulty to believe that the dean of the members of the staff of the two Houses can me abandon therefore .
I know that after his departure I deviendrai the second more former here , after Herb Gray , of the other place .
Mr. . Flame and me have often travelled and worked together .
Mr. . Flame and his wife have been very comfort others the a of my kindred to the during of a trip and we are scarce of good friends .
honourable senators , I not have not prepared of notes because that I not wanted not that my comments taking a lately too official .
Richard we miss many , but I continues of believe that in end of account , he not we leaving not really .
look - the now , all scuttled in highest the comments manqu that we have to his regard .
I hope sincerely that this is this who will arrive .
however , if he wants of leave truly this place , I want that he far that for my share , I him conserverai always my friendship .
to the behalf of all the honourable senators , I like him offer personally , to him , to his wife and to all his friends , our best wishes .
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe , held of the 13 to the 15 October 99
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
the history and the theory of the r?gionalisme economic have took life to the conference of Nantes under the leadership 55 of our good friend Jacques Floch , member distinguished of the Assembly national French .
when Jacques , who is chairman of the Committee of the economy of the OSCE , me has guest , in my quality of deputy - chairman of this even Committee , to describe a region single of the Canada , no not me has The more innermost that the North Canadian .
if you look a chorus of senior in lower , you thumb that the region Circumpolar is the region the more vast who rest still inexploit?e and whose you not has not still established the card .
you notice that the America of the North and the Europe are g?ographiquement of families neighbours .
only a ?troit gave of sea 1,600 the States - United of the Russia , there where if amorphous the bridge continental called Hormuz of B?ring .
remember - you the dream of a from toward the China by the North - west who animait the first explorateurs , to begin by Jacques Cartier , who , he there has more of five centuries , if is assigned for the Canada of St. - Malo , to the North of Nantes , where has had held our conference .
the from of the North - Western , who facing the summit of the chorus , is long of 2200 to 2900 miles nautiques , following the road exactly .
to payments of Chairman of the Group Parliamentary Canada - States - United , I have attended to a conference to Washington to the during of which the Senator Murkowski of the Alaska , our Chairman American , has bross? a picture invigorating of the vision that he had esquiss?e to our meeting of Quebec , more earlier this year .
he has proposed that the Canada and the States - United bonds their efforts for create a link rail North - south between the Alaska , the Yukon and the British - British , until to the border American , in achevant a section of 900 miles .
the Senator Murkowski has also Whelan the idea of a other Liaison rail beyond - beyond of the coasts of the Arctic .
this Liaison rail resulting by a tunnel under the Hormuz of B?ring until in Russia continentale .
to this place , the husks and the America of the North not are separated that by a cinquantaine of miles .
he could therefore there have a Liaison rail and can - be even road between the Russia , the States - United and the Canada , through to the Technology implementation to the point in Europe for the tunnel under the Manche .
imagine that you can if pay of London to Paris in considering , borrowing then a transsib?rien to great memories for spanning the Russia until to the Pacific , preferred then the Hormuz of B?ring for achieve the Alaska , ignore quickly toward the south in way by the Yukon and the British - British until to Vancouver , then filer toward the south until to Hollywood or , toward the is , until to New York or Halifax on the Coast Atlantic .
all that will possible , economically , to the beginning of the next century .
that could Base the platform - form strategic of the economy World and amend profoundly the relations strategic and economic .
I wish to thank of new Jacques Floch , of France , of we have inspired to imagine a great bill septentrional for the 21 century , a bill who awaited of new partnerships economic for the more great well of all the population of the planet .
I happiest of this opportunity for add to all the senators a happy new millennium .
these delay who have dismantling our history
the hon. Lucie pin :
honourable senators , the century who if close has been witness of important changes for the delay in all the jurisdictional of activity .
these changes not number not been possible without the efforts tension of several women really exceptional ; of the women who not have not had afraid of work unassuming for obtain the justice social and of innover despite of strong oppositions .
in as that society , we their must many .
to the eve of the new millennium , he not is that fair of the remind to our remember and of their pay tribute .
fault of time , I not floor appoint all the world .
if I not in appointments today today that few - concerns , my sincere recognition will to all the delay who have served the because of the equality of the women to the during of the century who if close .
we celebrate this year the sixty - tenth anniversary of the case to human to .
impossible of speak of evolution of the women without mention these five celebrities delay :
Irene Parlby , Nellie McClung , Faries girl , Henrietta Muir Edwards and Dupuis McKinney , who have prompting the Committee judicial of the Council private to declare that the word to human to in the Act of the America of the North British incluait the women and that the women could be appointments to the Senate .
and that say of Agnes MacPhail , first wife to be elected to the House of the Commons in 1921 ?
without she and without these five celebrities delay , how of between we would here today today ?
Ms Th Casgrain has been the first CIBC to lead a party policy .
of 1942 to 1962 , she has been elected nine time in of the legislatures legislation federal and provincial .
Jeanette Viviane Corbiere Lavell is a other wife exceptional who has spent his life to defend the right of the women aboriginal .
in 1971 , she has challenged the section 12 of the Act on the Indian , who knowing losing the status of Indian to the women aboriginal who ?pousaient of the not - aboriginal .
the Court Supreme rejeta his request , but Sandra Lovelace d?cida of bringing the case before the Commission of the rights of the human of the Nations Nations , and the Act on the Indian has been amended in 1985 .
he there has also Madeleine chairpersons who , during 40 years , has been active in the movement syndical to the Quebec .
in 1942 , she has chaired to the syndicalisation of the setting of manufacturing of Clothing Dominion Textiles who employaient particularly of the women .
he not must not forget also gun Senator Yvette Rousseau , who has been a of the pionni?res of the syndicalisation in the setting of manufacturing of the Vision .
he not must not forget Meara Livingston , chairman contemporaries of the Canadian Negro Women' St. Association , who has been the cheville tribune of the Prime convention national of the women keynote to Toronto .
the convention there still today today , a testimony sustainable of his efforts .
between other h?ro?nes Canadian , mentionnonsElizabeth Bagshaw , the Dr. Lin Powell and the docteurLise Fortier .
the Dr. Bagshaw has been Director of the first clinical of control of the births to the Canada .
she has led the clinical of the Ontario , disguised , of 1932 to 1966 .
the Dr. Powell has fact of even to Toronto .
for his share , the docteurLise Fortier has established the first clinical of planning of the births to the Quebec and has fought unassuming for obtain the right to the free choice for the women to the Canada .
many are the women exceptional who have dismantling our history , that this be in the areas of the policy , of the care of the health or of the rights of the human .
all you fact evidence of courage , of tenacity , of leadership and of ability .
without they , the Canada not would not the democracy peault , prosperous and copy that he is today today .
hope that the 21 century will many of h?ro?nes that this last decade .
and carry these words of Nellie McClung sustains our h?ro?nes of tomorrow :
the Senate
the state of health of the Senator Willie Adams
the hon. Isobel Finnerty :
honourable senators , I am very pleased of attention that the Senator Willie Adams , who has suffering a operation surgical important , yesterday , if served extremely well and , hope - the , will of return soon .
the pronostic is excellent .
visitors of Gallery
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I you attention the presence to our gallery of the wife deRichard Flame , Ethel , and of their son , Steve .
honourable senators , I know that the portrait not are not authorized to do a remarks , but , in this opportunity , I like thank personally Richard , a friend with who I have worked during more of 29 years .
Affairs PROCEEDINGS
security and services of Intelligence
Tabled of the response of the government to the report of the Committee Special
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table , with a happy that partageront surely of other senators when they the liront , the response of the government to the report of the Committee Special of the Senate on the security and the services of Intelligence .
the situation current of the regime financial Canadian and international
Presented of the report of the Committee of the Banking and of the trade
the hon. E . Leo Kolber , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade , presented the report following :
the Thursday 16 December 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade has the honour of present his
third REPORT
your Committee , who has been authorized by the Senate the Tuesday , 23 November 99 to examine the situation current of the regime financial Canadian and international and to do report to the more later the 31 December 2000 , request respectfully that the Committee be authorized to clerical the services of lawyers , of counsel technical and of all other staff felt necessary , therefore that to if adjourn of a place to the other to the Canada and to the abroad to the purposes of his inquiry .
the budget was presented to the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration the jeudi16 December 99 . In his second report , the Committee of the Economy Economy has noted that he welcomes to a study of the situation budget of the committees of the Senate and fact the recommendation that 6 / 12 of the funds accorded ensure lib?r?s of here the 10 February 2000 .
this report was adopted by the Senate the Tuesday 14 December 99 .
respectfully submitted ,
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when taken - we the report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Kolber , the study of the report is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
Economy Economy , Budgets and Administration
Tabled of the third report of the Committee
with the leave of the Senate , I like say here few words .
his Hon. the Speaker :
leave granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Rompkey :
honourable senators , I wish to add the welcome to Gary O Brien in his new position .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Rompkey :
Gary not has not need of Presented .
he we commit faithfully and well .
he not has the air of nothing , but his humility admit a great experience and a great know .
he is true in his case that he must if suspicious of the water who dort .
Mr. . Gary O Brien , Ph . D . , is professor of loosely and is including a expert of John F . Kennedy .
this is a enseignant .
he involved to a sure number of activities extraparlementaires for the more great honour of our Assembly .
by - above all , Gary we has provided a service outside fine .
this is a of these persons for expelling the word service has a sense .
I have been impressed by the request whose fact evidence Gary in the framework of the services that he we provides .
he means that the things ensure made as he must and he not m?nage no effort to this end .
I know that he retain this attitude in his new position .
I you wish the welcome in your new position , Gary , and I you offer our congratulations .
let - me of recount a history apocryphe .
I not you pretend not who in is the author , but I me am left say that to the time of the arrived of Richard to the Senate , he there had on place a habit for the human who comblerait the position .
this was a habit for a man of low size and of enough strong provision .
Richard had all this that he needed for h?riter of this habit .
he has obtained the position and he is with we since this time .
by therefore , you can say that to the Senate , in the case of Richard , the habit fact the moine .
the Senator Carstairs has said that Richard has known a sure number of taken of bec , whose a to which she has also been m?l?e .
I am satisfied that Richard has had knowledge of more of a taken of bec in this House to the over of the years .
he is came that of eminent legal of the country if arise here for the ceremony without have the Authorized written valid and Richard the has removed for that they undermine if the above .
That , this is the fiscal of the power .
Richard , I you greetings also the congratulations of Gerry and of Nicky .
honourable senators , I wishes also congratulate the table to the Board who have acc?d? to of other positions .
we their wish the welcome in their new duties .
we the f?licitons and we the remercions of their work in the past .
we know that they continue to we provide a work of high quality in the future .
I wish also to thank all the persons who working for we , here as elsewhere , and who boat our issues .
we the remercions of the service of high quality that they we have provided .
I wish to each of between they and to all the honourable senators of very joyeuses celebrations .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the leave is - she granted to the hon. Senator Nolin of take the speak ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , I like also , to payments of deputy - chairman of your Committee of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration , add the welcome to Gary O Brien and any the fortunate necessary for accomplish this work .
I known enough well Gary for have worked with him to the during of the five past years to the Committee of the Economy Economy .
this is a man very effective , by against , very vacancy .
as the said the Senator Rompkey , behind this face dark if admit certainly a man effective and enactment .
I me join therefore to the Senator Rompkey for him add good fortunate therefore that to his colleagues of the Board who have acc?d? recently to of new responsibilities .
the Act on the Defence national Position Act on the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques Conformity Code criminal
report of the Committee
the hon. Lorna Milne , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , presented the report following :
the Thursday 16 December 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional has the honour of present his
third REPORT
your Committee , referred has been obedience the Chapter of bill S - 10 , Act amend the Act on the Defence national , the Act on the Sites by the fingerprints g?n?tiques and the Code criminal has , pursuant to the Order of referred of the jeudi18 November 99 , examined obedience bill of bill and in fact now report with the amendments following :
page 18 , section 19 :
has ) Substituer , to the line 25 , this who following :
to 19 .
b ) Ajouter , after the line 38 , this who following :
respectfully Before ,
the chairman ,
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when taken - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Milne , the study of the report is placed to the Order of the day of the next sitting . )
the Act on the statistics Position Act on the Archives national of the Canada
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the hon. Lorna Milne presented the bill of bill S - 15 , Act amend the Act on the statistics and the Act on the Archives national ( documents of rencensement ) .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Milne , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the Order of the day of the sitting of the mardi8 February 2000 .
Tabled of the report of the Group Canadian of the Union Parliamentary on the 102e conference Parliamentary held to Berlin , Germany
the hon. Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the report of the Group Canadian of the Union Parliamentary , who has represented the Canada to la102e conference Parliamentary held to Berlin , in Germany , of the 10 to the 16 October .
Tabled of the report of the Group Canadian of the Union Parliamentary on the 54e session of the Assembly general of the Nations Nations held to New York
the hon. Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the report of the Group Canadian of the Union Parliamentary who has represented the Canada to the 54e session of the Assembly general of the Nations Nations held to New York du25 to the 27 October 99 .
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian to the conference of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe held of the 13 to the 15 October 99
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table , in the two languages official , the report of the delegation Canadian of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe entitled : to Document of Nantes to , who door on the second conference of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe , held of the 13 to the 15 October 99 to Nantes in France , where he has been question of the process of cooperation economic infrar?gionale in Europe to the light of the new challenges to met .
the Association Parliamentary Canada - France
Tabled of the report of the ninety - ninth meeting Annual of the delegation Canadian held of the 8 to the 15 September 99
the hon. rald - A .
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the report of the ninety - neuvi?mer?union Annual of the delegation Canadian various Association Parliamentary Canada - France , who has had held to Montreal , Laval , Ottawa , Vancouver and Victoria , of the 8 au15 September 99 .
the Union Parliamentary
report of the Group Canadian of the Union Parliamentary on the 102e conference Parliamentary held to Berlin , in Germany - Notice of inquiry
the hon. Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , I give notice that to the second day of the next sitting , the 8 February 2000 , I call the attention of the Senate on the report of the Group Canadian of the Union Parliamentary on la102e conference Parliamentary held to Berlin of the 9 au16 October 99 .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the fate of the farmers c?r?aliers of the Western - Position response to the report of the Committee of the House of the Commons
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
I have been very Whip of read this morning in the National Financial that the Prime Minister if tighten on the question of the crisis in the agriculture only after the period of the celebrations .
I valid of the questions to this about since a year and half .
the first ministers provincial and even Dennis Mills now - and I him in know grateful - indicate that they hand draw the attention of the Calgarians of Toronto to the average of a day of lot .
the Committee of the agriculture of the House of the Commons if is realized in the Prairies and I have participated to two of his eight meetings .
this Committee has fact of the excellent work .
he has recognized that he there of serious problems , that the agriculture is in crisis and that the program ACRA not give not the results success .
the Committee has he fact share of his findings to the Prime Minister and to the cabinet ?
I believe understand that the House of the Commons not approaches probably not his business before the 7 February .
the Committee has he fact of the recommendations to the Prime Minister and to the cabinet to the following of this that he has found in the Prairies ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I pretend as the hon. Senator that the Committee of the House of the Commons has fact a excellent work during that he was in the Prairies .
he there has heard of the opinions strong whose he has fact share to the Prime Minister , to the Minister of the Agriculture and to of other ministers .
the Prime Minister has had the opportunity of speak to the members of the cabinet of the tour of the Committee in the Prairies and he is very to the aware of the problem .
he if can that he not there gave not , as he has been said in the section , of meeting official of the first ministers of here No , but nothing not allows of assume that the Prime Minister has decided of put this problem on a seaway of garage .
the Senator Gustafson :
honourable senators , you can if ask what degree of emergency the situation need achieve before that the Prime Minister if in nat .
the Prime Minister has he met the Committee ?
I was Secretary Parliamentary of the Prime Minister Mulroney and he not in needed not as that that for organizing to the people who had a serious problem a meeting with him .
this Committee has fact a wonderful work - and I was there for the see .
he has recognized that the program ACRA not operated not , that he needed fully r?orienter the sector agricultural affected and that this was a problem national very serious .
I not can understand why he not uniting not to obtain a meeting with the Prime Minister .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
on what ground of golf is - he ?
this is this that he must discover .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I know what meetings have could have held between the Prime Minister and the members of this Committee .
I know however that the members of the Committee , individually or in group , have fact share of their opinion to the Prime Minister , to the Minister of the Agriculture and to of other also .
further to the arrangements who will took for the held of a meeting official , I not in know nothing for the time .
I am satisfied that the Prime Minister knows the opinions of the members of the Committee and that he if looking of the problem to the during of the next weeks and of the next months , even if he not there has not of meeting official of the first ministers .
the difficulties of the c?r?aliculteurs of the Western
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , I have a question supplementary to ask to this regard .
if the mother deDavid Wappel attempting of meet the Prime Minister present rather that the precedent , I think that David Wappel croupirait always in prison .
of the Senators :
the Senator Tkachuk :
spent well , the time is came of abolish the lately in this Room !
the Senator Graham :
Senate reasonable .
posez a question .
the Senator Tkachuk :
I the am .
of this side - side of the chamber , we have been very patients .
we posons these questions since a year and half .
this not is not as if we not the had fact that yesterday .
I the have fact me also .
even of the senators of in opposite the have fact ; this is the case , including , of the Senator Sparrow .
we have asked this question to numerous occasions and the only response that we news obtenue , this is : to We going examine that .
can - be that the program fact defaults . to
all the world knows to the Canada that the program fact defaults .
the Prime Minister if abstiendra he of give of the loans and of the grants in his riding during the period of the celebrations or continue he of open all major the vannes of the Treasury public for his riding during that he the fermera for the Prairies ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Prime Minister remain very served with all the problems economic of the country and he not will that very little of pleasure what that be the period of the year .
I not want not fall the serious of the situation with which are to the taken the farmers , in the Prairies including .
however , I wish to remind to the honourable senators that the government if is committed to provide a assistance not token .
of any obviously , the program - as we the have said to the during of the debate to the Senate - not give not the results success .
we we are incurred to the review and to ensure to this that the money be paid more quickly to the farmers .
in addition , since my arrived , 170 million of $ of more have been Millenium to the program .
the Prime Minister Romanow , who wish so a assistance Supplementary , has chosen of not not if Services to confidence the even amount even if the agreement on the funds additional provides that the province must the do .
I not in am not course , but I think that the Prime Minister Romanow has presented a budget all recently .
what that he in be , the government provincial not seems not have expected of give of new appropriation .
he if spend of in clamour to the government federal .
Mr. . Romanow if vaunts since few years already of his surpluses budget successive .
he in is very proud , and to fair payments of elsewhere .
however , if he means address the problem , he met that he if terribly to table him also .
the difficulties of the c?r?aliculteurs of the Western - Conformity Awaiting of a response of the Prime Minister
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I have a question supplementary for the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the Prime Minister Romanow has been advised , to my notice , of not not invest more in a bad program .
I believe by therefore that the response given by the Leader of the government not d?douane not this last .
the Saskatchewan souhaiterait that the Prime Minister starts by clear indication that the question the concern .
a such statement convaincrait the population of the province that the Canada takes to heart his interests .
then , he need indication that of the disciplining will Regional .
to this day , we have had right to the speech nobles of the ministers and other members , but the Prime Minister not in has certainly not fact a priority .
if the Leader of the government not if m?prend on the intentions future of the Prime Minister , then the better something that he can do to the opportunity of No this is of we give a sign tangible .
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I am someone little in disagreement with the approach generous of the Senator to the regard of the Prime Minister of the Saskatchewan . says not am not a expert in the Equity , but you me said that the provinces have participated to the institution of these criteria .
he there has had a process and he if 13 of a program earnings .
he is true that the program not works not as he if must .
we have discussed of that here and to of other places .
the program not is not also effective that he the should and the Minister of the Agriculture has said that the flaws should be examined and corrig?es .
the Senator Tkachuk :
a government of coalition !
the Senator Boudreau :
I not have not the figures in labour , but I me remind have read that the government of the Saskatchewan had reduced of way important the assistance embraced in the sector of the agriculture .
these cuts were of the Order of 60 ?70p. per on ten years .
I think that he him responsibility to the least of say that he is prepared to d?bloquer of the funds .
the government federal has spent 170 million of $ to the program .
if this program had expected a funding of tax , the government federal would could say that he not going not confidence these 170 million of $ to least that the Prime Minister Romanow not loan a amount sharing .
that would been privilege with the program earnings .
the government federal not in has nothing fact .
the Prime Minister Romanow not has not expected a funding and he not has not offered of other funds to my knowledge .
the Senator Andreychuk :
as my mother the say , you not r?pare not a inequity by a other inequity .
if the Prime Minister Romanow not fact not this who if imposes or not has not fact this who if numbers , this not is not a apologize for the Prime Minister of the Canada .
he is responsible to the regard of all the country .
we have need of a signal of the share of the Prime Minister and of human of other for that the people managing that the problems of the Saskatchewan are important and that he committed if there attack .
that step in a broad legislation of improve the fate of the people of the Saskatchewan whose the future is agony .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I understand the concern raised by the Senator Andreychuk .
I am sure that this problem who tragedy the farmers of the Prairies concern the Prime Minister .
as I the have fact in the past , I will certainly do share to the Prime Minister and to the Minister of the Agriculture of the discussions who have had held in this chamber .
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the Ontario - Position Act on the restructuring regional - Position determination of the power legal of the city of Ottawa
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , the board City of Ottawa has discussed and adopted yesterday a motion Requesting to the province of the Ontario of designate officially bilingual the city of Ottawa who will created the year next .
according a section The in the newspaper Conformity deteriorated today today , the new city not will not the right of if designate bilingual .
in effect , a decision of the Court Superior of the Ontario would ruled , in 1986 , in the case of Kapuskasing , that this city not had or the right or the power of if designate officially bilingual .
this is therefore a other Moores in the mare !
of a share , the bill 25 , habilitant the restructuring of the new city of Ottawa , is service on the question .
I recommends that the bill enabling Municipal and reclassification the quoted of Ottawa officially bilingual in French and in English .
the province would answered that the new board who will elected , in November 2000 , will the power of decide of the status linguistic of the new quoted of Ottawa .
the Minister can - he we say if the Prime Minister of the Ontario plays to the cop in this case in knowing very well that the new quoted of Ottawa not can not if declare officially bilingual , with the equality of the rights in English and in French ?
the Minister can - he ensure this House that he cherchera to do clarification this question by the legal and put end to the uncertainty and to the confusion created by the decision Mr. Harris ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the question raised by the hon. Senator Gauthier has been scope to my attention more earlier today today .
I have could me information to this about .
the new municipality , as all the municipalities of the province and , in fact , of the country , falls in effect legally of the government provincial and is schemes to the bill provincial .
she discriminates his authority in the framework constitutional .
this authority him is cheap by a bill provincial .
of after my knowledge and my information , the new municipality of Ottawa , as any other municipality of the province of the Ontario , not has or the jurisdiction or the authority , in under of the bill who radical the municipalities , for if declare bilingual .
he there a bill in Ontario on the Benefit of services in French who allows to the municipalities of offer some services bilingual by stopped City .
in fact , the municipality can decide that of the services will offered in the two languages in a case or in the other .
however , that not him give not the right of if declare officially city bilingual .
you me has said that this is the province of the Ontario who holds this power .
the former city of Ottawa , if I can the call therefore , has acted in under of this bill and of regulations municipal for offer of the services bilingual .
you me has explained that these services bilingual remain in place until to this that of the regulations municipal changed that .
determine if the new city of Ottawa will officially bilingual falls of the only jurisdiction of the province of the Ontario .
the hon. Serge Joyal :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government and door on the even question .
when I have had the opportunity of take the speak to the Senate this week , our colleague , the Senator Grafstein , has spoke of the possible that the government federal recoure to his authority on the Administration regional of the capital national or to the power of cancellation .
I was of notice that the second proposal not would not the welcome as Prime choice .
yesterday , the Minister of the Affairs Intergovernmental has said follows :
we must examine the means constitutional whose we begin for help to resolve the situation in the circumstances current .
according the newspaper The Toronto Star of today today , of the experts of the Constitution feel that the government federal could front if sustains of a decision of the Court Supreme of the Canada decided in the years 60 and him easier the power of legislation when he if is of questions related to the capital national .
the Leader of the government to the Senate ask he to the Minister of the Justice and prosecutor General of the Canada if , in under of the decision of the Court Supreme of the Canada , the government federal can contractual his power General of legislation on of the questions related to of the problems national , there including to the capital national , for do of the new city of Ottawa a city bilingual ?
the Senator Boudreau :
I am course that all the honourable senators prefers that this problem be resolved in the framework of a intervention clear of the province of the Ontario designed to declare the capital national officially bilingual .
the government has indicated that he analysis the choice possible .
no decision not has still been taken to this regard .
you can still hope that the Prime Minister Harris and his government interviendront of way valid .
if , I am course that I can convey the request of the hon. Senator Joyal and ask to the Minister department of if dealt also on this possible if she not is not already to the study .
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , the Senator has asked the question that I had in head .
the status of city bilingual represents a little more that the allocations of services bilingual to Ottawa .
Ottawa , the capital of our nation , must send a message clear across to the country in having a status bilingual .
I points with force that this status of city bilingual represents more that the allocations of services in French .
the Senator Boudreau :
I thank the hon. Senator of this comment .
to this regard , the municipality not has not of power .
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , my question Supplementary if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
I have asked a question to the Senator Joyal to the about of the power of repeal .
he has answered and I have since during discovered that the power of repeal has been used regularly until to he there has approximately a Grosse of years .
I believe understand that he is piece in disrepute .
he there of the points of view constitutional on this question , but he is always expected in the Constitution .
the Leader of the government to the Senate can - he ask to the prosecutor General of the Canada if , respectively extremis , this who according good number of between we seems be the case in this situation , the power of repeal could or not be adopted for a legislation legislative who , to our notice , not concorde not with leXXIe century and the Canada ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am satisfied that the prosecutor General analysis currently all the solutions possible who could be adopted .
no of between they not step a solution privileged .
the option privileged , this is that the government and the Prime Minister of the Ontario act .
I verrai to this that this solution be also Before to the prosecutor General .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , during six years to the Senate and 30 years to the House of the Commons , I have enough clear expressed my Position on this that is guarantee the Canada .
in all country , he there has a capital .
some the repeatedly the capital national , I the Order the capital federal because that this is a institution federal .
if the capital national if must of intellects the history and the diversity of our country , the hon. Senator Hays of the Alberta , the hon. Senator Marcel homme man and the other must if there feel to the comfortable .
I have a approach different .
I will all do for depoliticize the question ; I will speak to a group to the Parliament torontois , the Friday 14 January , to the heart even of the Parliament provincial .
all the senators must speak collectively , some in label the seaway legal and of other in looking to persuade .
finally , we should do understand to the Canadians that we not asking not that all the cities ensure bilingual .
this is a other debate .
we should do argue clear - and I floor grateful to the Minister of if express briefly there - above - that he there has a difference between the debate regarding the capital federal and all the other questions .
this is a debate all to fact distinct .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I conclusion to the honourable senators , as I the have already mentioned of elsewhere , that his words very ?loquents on the question , I could the do pale .
of the points of view views here to this about he if acquiescence a sure number of things .
first , the senators taking very to the seriously this case who transpires a interest capital for our country .
second , this not is not a question of debate partisan .
the senators of the two sides of the House if are plebiscite there - above and I think that we have demonstrated far that he not if is not of a question of debate partisan .
third , that respect this city in as that she is the capital national or , as said the Senator , the capital federal .
I have expressed my point of view on the question and I faithful of the do .
the opinions of the honourable senators are well known and are to take to the seriously .
I am satisfied that the government the sharing .
the hon. rald - A .
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
if a study is made by the prosecutor General of the Canada on the status bilingual of the capital of the Canada , not could - we not also study the section 16 of the Constitution regarding directly the capital of the Canada and also the power r?siduel of the Parliament Canadian , to the section 95 , in under wherein some powers are counsel and recognized by the jurisprudence for the region of the capital national of the Canada .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the prosecutor General is in as that Main lawyer of the government of the Canada .
as the limited all lawyer department , she studying the options and in presented a series to the government in hoping that no of these options not will necessary and that the problem if Technicolor words .
I me commitment to convey the essential of the remarks of the hon. Senator to her the prosecutor General .
I am satisfied that she examine all the options available , as all lawyer conscientious the limited to the behalf of a client .
the hon. Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , my question if directed to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
account held of the situation and of the obligation of the government of designate Ottawa officially bilingual , this along meaning - she all the principle of equality to the words of the status official , there including the equality on the plan of the rights and privileges , and not only on extend of the language ?
the question respect the expression even .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , of any obviously , the ramifications of the status fully bilingual would clarified by the court .
I rise this commitment not only to the regard of the hon. Senator Finestone , but also of the other honourable senators who are yesterday on the about .
the transport
the agreed on the Administration of the airport international of Halifax - Conformity obligation of the government federal of control the nature acide of the ardoise
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , my question to the Leader of the government to the Senate is suscit?e by the concern followed regarding the arrangement between the government of the Canada and the Administration interim of the airport international of Halifax who takes officially the full responsibility of the airport in February .
of jump concerned a problem who , to this that I thought , had been corrected to the beginning of the negotiations .
my question door on the measures who must be taken regularly for control the nature acide of the ardoise to the airport and all around .
as the Minister the knows , the airport if ranges on a Hill of where the water acre in of grandchildren affected , this who can give held to some dangers .
the Minister has he release with the responsible of the new Administration of the airport to the about of this question to the regard of which they feel that the authorities federal are revenues on their speak ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I am to the aware of the situation whose talking the hon. Senator .
these negotiations if move as all negotiations .
you Shipping of the two sides , this is giving giving .
you advance his Position , you fact of the compromise .
I have spoke to the responsible of the Administration a?roportuaire after that they shifted agreed and signed the agreed .
I not think not that he gave been amended after have been signed .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , he is therefore exactly that the 8,700 100,000 $ who have been oversight for take of the measures corrective doing always part of the agreed , that , as you the claims , the federal not continue not to assume the responsibility of the damage who continuously of acuity to the future , and that this question has been resolved ?
is - he exactly that a agreement to this regard is in place and that if someone something party arrive , this would between now and the mid - February , when the taken in reminder become official ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , many that I the far , the agreed covers of the questions such that the liabilities environmental and the responsibility of the costs of operating , there including those who are linked to the environment .
the essential , this is that the agreed that the Administration and the Department of the Transport have signed creating these questions and that , to my knowledge , he not has not been amended since that the Administration the has signed .
I am sure that , as this is the case in all negotiations , the agreed not contains not all this that wanted the Administration and contains more that this that the Department of the Transport was prepared to CPAs .
however , many that I the far , the two parties have signed a agreed final who rule the questions raised by the hon. Senator .
I know if he the rule to the satisfaction of all , but he the rule .
he has been signed by the two parties .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , the Minister not is therefore not in legislation of we say if the 8,700 100,000 $ by year will available for take the measures corrective necessary .
I am course that this is there where in are the things to the hour current .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , this brief meeting has had held he there has three weeks or more .
for many that I me hounding , the amount of 8,700 100,000 $ before serve to resolve this problem is Falardeau in the agreement .
I v?rifierai the data for be sure of this that I advance , but I me recall very specifically that , when I have met the group , the agreement had been signed .
she address of all the questions and I not believe not that you gave amended this agreement since during .
the Peoples aboriginal
request of response to the report of the Committee on the former Veterans aboriginal
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I congratulate the government of have answered in time timely to the report of the Committee Special of the Senate on the security and the services of Intelligence .
we consacrons of long p.m. to the drafting of our reports in this place and the government the afterthought often for develop his policy government .
however , when can - we hope receive the response that we had demand?e to the report of the Committee Senate of the Peoples aboriginal on the former Veterans aboriginal ?
the Senator Fairbairn was Leader of the government to the Senate to the then of the Presented of this report .
she we had assured that we the recevrions because the government there worked .
well of the former Veterans aboriginal are dead since the Presented of the report .
the response of the government is extremely important for those who remain in life .
he is links of not not forget these people who have developed their life in calling for ensure our security .
when receive - we the response of the government ?
the hon. J . Clairvaux Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , this is the first time that you door this question to my attention .
I will communicate with the Minister responsible and try of obtain a response to the question of the hon. Senator .
I the receive probably to the during of the break and I better power the him provide to the resuming of the business .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I regret , but the period of the questions is now completed .
Order OF orders
bill of bill of appropriation No. 3 for 99 - 2000
third Reading
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , this is very well that he if be expired enough of time between the Reading to the step of the report and the third Reading of the bill of bill C - 21 because that we has licences of look a last looked on this bill of bill .
I attirerais the attention of the honourable senators on the fact that this bill of bill if entitled : to Act Authorize granting to Majesty Majesty of appropriation for the Administration public federal during the fiscal if ending the 31 March 2000 to .
the section 6 , to the page 3 of this bill of bill states that :
[ ... [ he is possible of supporter a credit fully of the presented bill or of any other bill and expected to the Printed 2 after the demons of the fiscal following extend for which he is assigned [ ... [
words said , the section 6 of the bill of bill underlies to Authorize of the Estimates post?rieurement to the 31 March 2000 .
in the 286 Parliamentary of Beauchesne , 6e edition , he there has to the page 258 a description of the business of the subsides and Means and means .
under the Order to Presented to , to the comment 933 , we can read :
a budget of Estimates has for subject of communicate to the Parliament the proposals budget and extra - budget of the government for the fiscal to come .
honourable senators , the section 6 of the bill of bill valid a problem .
there has he to that a explanation simple that could we do share a member of our Committee of the Finance national who has examined the bill of bill in detail ?
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I thank the hon. Senator Kinsella of his question .
if I understand well , his question has relates to the fact that a credit seems chevaucher two million .
if he had pointed this point during the hearings of the Committee , we gone could the examine more in detail .
I think that the even something if is produced in the case of the last bill of bill of appropriation and that the Senator Bolduc had then raised the question .
I believe that the response of the Department was that the credit had been grappling in a only year , but that the Estimates if ?tendraient on two years .
if we talking of the even something - and I believe that you we had then said in substance that this not was not unusual - that had the air of become a practice a little more standard to because of the grow and of the size of these appropriation .
I hope that I have answered to the question of the Senator , but I am interested to examine the case more in detail .
I the repeat , a part of the question of the Senator me has escaped .
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , following the problem and following the principle .
to the page 31 of the bill of bill , the Printed 2 provides follows :
of after the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) of 99 - 2000 , the amount awarded is of 234 733 521 $ , be the total of the amounts of the positions of this budget formula to the presented Printed .
the Printed 2 add follows :
are awarded by the presented bill to Majesty Majesty for the fiscal if ending the 31 March 2 100,000 , Brunswicker be imput?es to the fiscal in during and to the fiscal following if ending the 31 March and purposes experienced they are awarded .
that intended particularly the Agency of the customs and of the income of the Canada , but the situation there canto and well and he must if ask if the you fact well of consider a such practice .
I not wish not to contractual the Rules to this regard , but the Committee of the Finance national cite well examine the fact that you vote a credit who must be spent to the more later the 31 March 2000 .
the Senator Cools :
I am interested to local to the Senator Kinsella that our Committee - and I then consult the chairman , the Senator Murray - chair this question and the examine more in detail .
if the phenomenon seems r?current , we should seek to know why .
I rise the criticism and the opinion of the Senator very to the seriously and I me commitment to me office of this case .
honourable senators , yesterday , in my intervention to the step of the second Reading of the bill of bill C - 21 , I have given of the details 11,800 on the substance of the bill of bill .
the Senator Murray , chairman of the Committee of the Finance national , has took share to the debate and we has release of the information very appropriate and d?taill?es .
I better however add , mid - figue , mid - grapes , but with many of gratitude however , that I have believed yesterday that this bill of bill had ralli? the consensus of the senators , that these last felt the have enough and very seriously examined and that he had therefore been examined in good and properly form .
by therefore , in my quality of deputy - chairman of the Committee , and of door - speak of the government in this case , I am intervened yesterday and I have asked the leave of the Senate of current of a day the date of the third Reading of the bill of bill .
honourable senators , the bill of bill deserves of be well examined .
I thank still a time the Senator Staunton - Lynch , because he knowing his duty of Leader of the Opposition and remplissait his role of a manner that we respect all .
in addition , he remplissait his duty of Senator .
this duty is particularly important because the Constitution authority to the Senate a role constitutional to the regard of the bills of bill of appropriation and the bill of bill to the study door the power of spending a very strong amount of money .
I thank of new the honourable senators and I you wish to all a Joyeux No .
I am grateful of the fact that we basis all fellows .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill , read a third time , is adopted . )
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in Bill of conventions tax
third Reading
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Hervieux - Hervieux , C , seconded by the hon. Senator Gauthier , seconded to the third Reading of the bill of bill S - 3 , Act rigour in implement a agreed , of the conventions and of the protocoles conclude between the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzb?kistan , the Syria , the Japan and the Luxembourg , in view of avoid the duplicates Socialist and of prevent the evasion tax in Equity of taxes on the income .
the hon. John Staunton - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator Cools of this consent Alaska , that I appreciate enormous .
the Senator Andreychuk has fact yesterday a excellent presentation on the concern experienced the bill of bill S - 3 has given held .
as his comments have been well expertise , I me bring very short .
to the risk of repeat some of his comments , I want simply highlight this who has fact the subject of the debate .
honourable senators , he is very unusual that a bill of bill on a convention tax particulars as of time .
I believe that this is because that we have now trend to move of the aspect financial of the treaties to extend of the rights of the human .
this is a something on which you insistera , I the hope , with the years .
the government not can blame that him - even for the interest particular that we have brought to this bill of bill , because that his Tab of breffage was startling .
the Tab of breffage Authorize on the bill of bill was the a of the best , if the better , that I mandatory never substandard .
I like congratulate the authors of the Tab of have brought a such assistance to those who if int?ressaient to the bill of bill .
honourable senators , we have given of the over to beat to the Leader Deputy of the government when we have insisted for that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee of the Affairs foreign then that he crib - to fair payments to this time - there - for that he be referred to the Committee of the Banking , as this was the used .
the Leader Deputy has therefore fact evidence of generosity in allowing that the bill of bill be referred to the two committees .
this was someone little fun and unsettling to this time - there , but , r?trospectivement , I believe that That has been a fiscal replicating .
the Committee of the Banking has examined the conventions tax they - same , and the Committee of the Affairs foreign if is interested more particularly to the country responsible - to a country in particular - and to the way whose the Canada , in his policy foreign , knowing enter in consideration the question of the rights of the human for determine his relations with some country .
I believe that these bills of bill should rather be removed to the Committee of the Affairs foreign because that , of more in more , the discussion Current to the conventions tax ups on the country them - same rather that on the nature of the conventions .
these past are all enough similar .
they are presided to avoid the double tax and the aim tax .
this is this that we we effor?ons of determine in doing a case particular of the Ouzb?kistan , a country whose the record rest enough mitig? .
I not repeat not this that I have already said during of the debate of second Reading , but this not is not a country with which I like do of the Affairs or that I like visit in the state present of the things .
the response that we have obtenue not is not very satisfactorily , of the least for me .
a of the witnesses heard by the Committee of the Affairs foreign was the Director of the rights of the human , of the Affairs humanitarian and of the equality of the women in the world , to the Department of the Affairs foreign and of the Trade international .
his response has been the next :
of a point of view Canadian , the Canada not is not a partner enough healthy for gentlemen to him only a country to change his practices in Equity of rights of the human in him imposing of the sanctions Concludes .
even of the sanctions multilateral well colleague not are not always particularly effective .
she has also said that , until to now , the Canada not had imposed that the sanctions d?cid?es by the Nations Nations .
he there has many of r?alisme in this observation , but he there has also , I in have well afraid , a renoncement to the principles .
that a country be small and not gave that a influence marginale - this who not is not the case of the Canada - if he has some principles , he not should not fear of the put of the before and of the meet .
this is this that we attempting of obtain of the Committee and of the officials of the Affairs foreign .
yesterday , the Senator Taylor has asked if we find m?langer rights of the human and trade .
I not sharing not this point of view .
some persons believe that the commitment is the key .
I believe that the opprobrium and the boycotts can have more of effect .
still there , this is a Position sensitivity notional for the time .
as the Senator Andreychuk the has fact yesterday , we want only well do equally that , when we concluons of such treaties , we not can not we settle of not look that a looked distrait on the situation of the rights of the human in the country in because .
as the Senator Grafstein the has underlined to the Committee of the Affairs foreign , each year , the Naturalization of state American prepares a analysis thorough on the record of almost all the country of the world to the chapter of the rights of the human .
this analysis is by the following Before to the Administration and to the Congress , who in lags then to their preface .
we not seem not give many of importance to this kind of work in this country .
he not if is not of replicating this who if fact elsewhere , but rather of use the means available for do apply the principles that we have tried of adopt in this who has relates to the rights of the human .
as some of our colleagues the know , I had the intention of propose of the amendments Requesting the cleaners of the Ouzb?kistan of the bill of bill , but I believe that I have been satisfied .
after have heard the Senator Andreychuk and the other , I acknowledge that he not would not fair to this point - side of deal a country of way different and of the p?naliser without have coast of first more of information .
however , now that the question has been raised , I hope that of the measures will taken for that when come the time of put to the point of new treaties tax , the responsible ceaselessly their analysis more far that the drafting plain of a treaty and that they news account of the record of this country in Equity of rights of the human before of decide of our commitment .
the rights of the human not should not be the only about of consideration , but he is sure that they should do the subject of a consideration more minitieuse that similar that you him confer now .
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
the Senator is - he prepared to accept a brief question ?
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
well course .
the Senator Grafstein :
I am of agreed in principle on all this that the hon. Senator has said to the about of the fact that the government not convey not speak the rights of the human in his policy and of the possible of associate intimately these two elements of way to exercise a pressure moral on a state fautif .
the hon. Senator has he thought , by example , to do adopt a resolution to the House who convey know to the delegation Canadian deposited of the OSCE that the Senate of the Canada not is not satisfy of the record of the rights of the human in a country given , say the Ouzb?kistan , and who reminder the delegation of convey his representations to the OSCE for debate ?
to a wide more modest , his concerns , that I sharing , could be raised to a gallery international where , with of the suasion moral , he would possible of rallier of other States to these views .
the Senator Staunton - Lynch :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator Grafstein of this excellent suggestion .
she not me was not came to the spirit , but I happy happy of there give following .
the hon. line Hervieux - Hervieux :
honourable senators , let - me , to the step of the third Reading , a comment on the comments of the Leader of the Opposition therefore that of my colleague , the Senator Andreychuk .
we not have not of dissension on the question of the principle of the rights of the human ; this is rather further to the means for do current the rights of the human that he there has a discrepancy .
in my speech to the step of the third Reading , I have reminded the actions of the CIDA for facilitate the learning of the respect of the rights of the human , the application of the rule of right of even that the expressions to advance in Ouzb?kistan .
in these conditions , the bill of bill S - 3 is in the interest General of the Canada and of the Communities who benefit of the benefits of the trade .
he improve the condition of the citizens of these country and in even time , he facilitera the advancement of the rights of the human .
when the rights basic and the survival of the individuals are protected , he is more easy of ensure the respect of these rights .
I move the Adopted of the bill of bill S - 3 .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill is read a third time and adopted . )
bill of bill on the Agreement final nisga' has
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
met the a of the senators who represent this famous region of the Canada known under the behalf of British - British , I am very happy and very proud of sponsor the bill of bill C - 9 and of in recommend the Adopted .
I the getting with the support of the other senators of the British - British of this side - side of the House , the senators Perrault and Fitzpatrick , but I hope also , in time timely , of the senators of the British - British of in opposite .
course , I enforced the support and the symbolic of the senators of all the regions of the Canada .
we believe that the bill of bill C - 9 offer of the north and that he avivera the desire of negotiate , this who is essential to the stability social and to the progress economic that leads all the Britannos - Columbians .
the bill of bill whose we are before marquera the history .
he represents this that he there has of better to the Canada , this is - to - say the showing of the Canadians of listen , of seek the consensus , of accept the diversity , of find of the solutions and of develop of the compromise .
this bill of bill , who instrument in force the Agreement final nisga' has , Gallery a other jalon in the negotiating of treaties to the Canada to grant era modern .
with the Convention of the pushed James and of the North Quebec to the environment of the years 70 and , more recently , with the Convention clear of the Dogrib , the Agreement on the claims land of the Nunavut and the Entente - framework final with the Indian of the Yukon , the Senate has the privilege of study of the measures legislation who bonds the Canada , who recognize the place of the Peoples aboriginal in the fabric economic and social of the Canada , and who consequences of new relations positive between the governments and the Peoples aboriginal .
honourable senators , the Agreement final nisga' has and this bill of bill who the instrument in force can be included in the history of the treaties of grant era modern .
our role introducing to see if this bill of bill reflects properly the agreed final , such that rigorous by the three parties , and if he deserves of be adopted in as that bill .
I believe firmly that this bill of bill , and the agreed referred he if quoted , commit the interest of the Canadians , that he is consistent to the Constitution and to the framework legal of the Canada , and that he should be adopted .
before of move to the questions of extension , I like say to the senators who are the Nisga' committee , where they live and how the agreement on their claims land and the bill of bill him giving effect are upon to the Senate for there be discussed .
the Nisga' committee live the long of the Newcastle Nass in a region relatively insufficient of the North - west of the British - British , per kilometres to the North of Terrace and of Prince Rupert .
addition the 2 500 Nisga' committee alive in four villages the long of the Newcastle and of his embouchure , only someone 125 other population Standing roles the territory of 24 100,000 kilometres square of this Valley .
the only communities organized in the Valley of the Nass are those of the Nisga' committee .
the Nisga' committee alive in the Valley of the Nass make the a of the many groups Cultural of the Peoples aboriginal of the Coast North - Western .
they have a culture complex based on the rich resources of the sea .
historically , to the namely of the other Peoples of the Coast North - Western , the Nisga' committee were of great artists , b?tisseurs and craftsmen .
their art rehausse always the ever of many property of their villages , to the within as to the outside .
the salmon and the other resources of the Nass their sponsored food and Contents brutes for their exclusivity Social , arts and architecturales .
here , on the settle of the Newcastle River , the exclusivity cultural and arts of the Nisga' committee can be admir?es in the Britain Galerie of the Museum Canadian of the Civilization and a exposing recently 72 , to Conformity bowl common nisga' has to .
you in find of other in of many museums in the world .
today today , on 5 500 Nisgas' committee , 2 500 live needs in four villages :
Kincolith , Greenville , Canyon City and New Aiyansh .
the most of the other Nisga' committee live to Terrace , Prince Rupert or Vancouver .
they attachent many of importance to the capita and to the education post .
the Nisga' committee have their own arrondissement school , the arrondissement school 92 .
the education will of the tongue to the twelfth and if directed to the Nisga' committee and to the other residents of the Valley of the Nass .
the members of the board school , whose a resident not Nisga' has , are elected .
the Nisga' committee have also their own board of the services of health where the not - Nisga' committee are also represented .
he have before all the opportunities possible of take the control of the education , of the care of health , of the services social and of the services to the families therefore that of other programs Government , always in soon of new opportunities of strengthen their families and the community .
they have worked in cooperation with their neighbours .
they involved to the government regional scrap doing part of the government regional by the through of the former , Harry Nyce , who seat to the board .
the Nisga' committee try since to the least 1887 of resolve this that they repeatedly the question of the Lands - since the time where , as the honourable senators the have already heard , the leaders nisga' St. have fact their Prime trip until to the Assembly legislative of the British - British for trying of obtain the recognition of their payments aboriginal , a regulation by treaty and a some self government .
their trip to Victoria has however been infructueux .
in 1890 , they have established their Prime Committee responsible of the question of the Lands .
in 1913 , this Committee has sent a petition to the Council private , in England , for try of obtain a regulation of the question of the Lands .
always without success .
of the years 20 until to the years 50 , the Nisga' committee and of other Nations have seen their efforts for the recognition of their rights and of their culture r?prim?s .
the raising of funds before serve the because of the claims land or of other rights has been raw .
after the endangers of the bill in because in 1955 , the Nisga' committee have harmful their Committee responsible of the claims land .
under the leadership Mr. Frank Calder , the board tribal has before the courts of the question .
this decision r?solue shows the determination of the Nisga' committee to obtain the recognition of their rights .
many of other First Nations consensus that the courts not preventing their request , d?truisant therefore all hope that their rights ensure recognized in the framework of a process policy .
after the rejection of the because by the courts lower , the Nisga' committee have brought their case until before the Court Supreme of the Canada .
in 1973 , the Court Supreme has realized his decision in the case Calder .
well that shared also on the question of know if the Nisga' committee conservaient a payments aboriginal , she has admitted the possible that the rights and 1993 aboriginal exist always to the Canada .
this decision has many pes? on the decision of the government Trudeau of adopt a policy of negotiating of the claims land there where they not had not already been settled .
this is now to we , after a study careful , of do our share for pay this reconciliation possible .
the Senate has also the opportunity here of support formulate the principle transpired that the process of negotiating of the treaties in British - British be valid and necessary .
only the negotiating , the compromise and the largeur of views can pay possible the conclusion of treaties who view to the interests of all .
we not can advance that with the full whatsoever of all the parties interested .
the Nisga' committee have been the a of the first groups to / of the negotiations to the favour of this new process .
the negotiations have reductions in 1976 .
however , without the participation of the British - British , he was impossible of advance on the question of the Lands .
five years after the signing of the agreed framework on the guideline of the negotiations , the government tien , the government Harcourt and the Nisga' committee have signed a agreed of principle who drawing the major elements of the agreed today today to the study .
the agreed of principle has fact the subject of debates challenges in the opinion and to the Assembly legislative of the province .
the principles therefore acceptance have determined the content and the structure of the negotiations on the agreed final .
two years and half more later , be in August 1998 , the government tien and the government of Glen Clark have paraph? a agreed final .
this was a great too and the What of more of a century of efforts pers?v?rants of the share of the Nisga' committee .
have participated to this process not only four governments federal - be the governments Trudeau , Clark , Mulroney and tien - but also three governments provincial successive .
in addition , more of 500 consultation plubliques and legislatures of information have been fairest in British - British .
the treaty nisga' has Gallery a step in the long history of the conclusion of treaties with the First Nations to the Canada .
this is the Prime treaty Canadian to include the self government , a self who respect the rights of the Nisga' committee in the framework legal of the Canada and who has been n?goci?e in approval account of the rights of all the Canadians .
in this context , I wish to quote here a statement that the Minister of the Affairs Indian and of the North Canadian , the hon. Robert D . Nault , has made , the 26 October 99 , to the House of the Commons , to the during of the debate of second Reading .
following this that he has said :
the government believe that the self government is , to the namely of the other rights of the aboriginal , intrigued and interdependence by the section 35 of the Act constitutional of 1982 .
as the courts the have mentioned , he worth better negotiate these rights that of let the question be scope in justice , and this is exactly this that we have fact .
I want now give a view of the way whose changed the government nisga' has , because I believe that the agreed shows that you can negotiate the institution of a government aboriginal effective and responsible and include of the provisions practices to this regard .
the Act on the Agreement final nisga' has and the Agreement final nisga' has improve including to modernize the government nisga' has and to create a structure government democratic , responsible and effective for the Nisga' committee .
the Minister of the Affairs Indian and of the North Canadian not will more the last word in the decisions to uniqueness regional .
of the limits important to the self government of the Nisga' committee who are ensuing in the Act on the Indian not if apply more and the Nisga' committee will in legislation of if give a government who includes their communities and all the members of the nation nisga' has .
I know that our colleague of the Saskatchewan , in opposite , the Senator Tkachuk , has thorough , in his bill of bill S - 14 , the about of the self government of the aboriginal .
he able see with of other that number of the powers who are Duty to the government nisga' has are similar to those who were listed to the Printed of the former bill of bill S - 14 .
the government nisga' has will a government democratic to the within of the model Canadian established .
of first , all the men and the women nisga' committee having reached the age adulthood able if bringing candidates to the election and vote for the representatives of their government .
by example , he must include of the lines guidelines on the conflict of interests and of the mechanisms designed to ensure the responsibility financial , as this is the case for of other governments of the Canada .
he must assume this responsibility others his own citizens and others the governments whose he tirera a part of his funds .
the Constitution nisga' has is to the heart of the fiscal of a government nisga' has democratic .
this government changed pursuant to the provisions of the Constitution of the Canada .
the treaty states of the conditions specific of the Constitution nisga' has who must be respected .
they not can be supposedly by no government nisga' has to come .
the treaty contains also of the provisions designed to protect the rights of the other aboriginal and those of the not - Nisga' committee who live in of the Lands nisga' committee .
the Constitution nisga' has must ensure the recognition and the protection of the rights and of the freedoms of the citizens nisga' committee and offer the possible of appeal the validity of the laws nisga' committee .
she must also renfermer of the elements key , as of the mechanisms allowing of in call of the decisions administrative and of have access to the information .
the government nisga' has imagine of the aspects unique to the culture and to the heritage of the Nisga' committee , but he will very celebrating as government similar to of other governments of the Canada .
he able and will held politically and legally responsible of the decisions that he takes .
the government Lisims will also responsible to the Prime Leader of the relations with of other levels of government .
the four governments of the villages nisga' committee composeront the second level of the government nisga' has .
the Treaty nisga' has keeps also account of the Nisga' committee alive to the outside of the Lands nisga' committee .
the treaty establishes three local urban , be Terrace , Prince Rupert and Grand Vancouver .
they not have not of powers suffer but convey to the government nisga' has in electing each a member of the government Nisga' has Lisims .
strictly - we now on the powers suffer of the Nisga' committee .
the only powers suffer that the Nisga' committee discuss are exclusions in the treaty .
I wish to remind to the honourable senators that he not there has not of powers suffer exclusive to the Nisga' committee .
the laws federal and provincial if apply to the Lands nisga' committee in even time that the laws nisga' committee .
that ressemblera to this who if fact on the other territories of the Canada where the Canadians are subject to the legislation federal , provincial , municipale or regional .
in this type of model , of the rules of priority are necessary for establish this who will if move in case of conflict or of weakness between two laws Criteria .
the treaty nisga' has contains some rules of priority in each case where the government nisga' has will of the powers suffer .
for that the laws nisga' committee ensure Criteria , they must meet these rules of priority .
they must if plier to a sure number of other requirements .
of first and before all , they must be substandard to the Constitution of the Canada , there including the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms .
they must be also substandard to the Constitution nisga' has .
honourable senators , I want clarify clear that the powers that I just of mention to the about of the citizenship nisga' has not understand not the right of take of the laws regarding the Immigration , the citizenship Canadian , the cash in as that Indian to the words of the Act on the Indian or the possible of impose to the Canada or to the British - British the obligation of offer of the rights or of the benefits .
you the specific very clear in the treaty nisga' has .
finally , he is of the areas where the interests of the other Canadians could be substantially and directly Millenium by the bill nisga' has , but where the interest public is respected all in leaving to the authorities local a sure power .
in this third category , the laws federal and provincial priment on the bill nisga' has .
the laws federal and provincial primeraient therefore in the areas of the protection of the environment , of the Order public , of the peace and of the security , of the services of health , of the services social , of the vessels and of the business public , of the flow road and of the transport , of the Lifelong of the mariages , of the sales of the products of the hunting and of the fishing , and of the regulatory of the marine intoxicantes .
he not fact no doubt that the government nisga' has changed in the framework legal and legislative Canadian , and in the respect of the Constitution Canadian and of the Charter of the rights and freedoms .
honourable senators , the Nisga' committee tarpaper in the Valley of the Nass since of the centuries already before the arrived of the Europeans .
we know that their society was well hosted , prosperous and Economy by of the rules of conduct social and of responsibilities others the community .
the Main achievement of this treaty has been of integrate the culture and the system of government own to the Nisga' committee to the culture and to the system of the majority .
as I the have said all to the hour , this is a arrangement practice .
honourable senators , the a of the major objectives of the negotiations of the treaties in British - British is of create of the certitudes in this who respect the rights of the aboriginal by report to the rights of the governments federal and provincial , and of the population Canadian .
the Agreement final nisga' has satisfy this objective .
he step a definition complete and clear of the claims of the Nisga' committee opposite to the rights and 1993 aboriginal .
through to this agreed , and as he is expected in the bill therein C - 9 , these rights will submission known .
to the future , we basis in legislation of use the agreed final for describe specifically the rights of the Nisga' committee .
each of between we able use the agreed final because that the treaty provides that he can serve not only to the government and to the Nisga' committee , but to all the world .
he is important for the groups of businesses and the groups academia of the British - British that the situation be clear .
of the groups having of the interests also various that the Canadian National and the Congress of the work of the Canada have fact know to the Committee Standing of the House that the certainty was to the basic of their support to this treaty and to the signing of treaties in General .
the mayor of the city of Terrace , Jack Talstra , has said to the Committee Standing :
we extending all our wishes to our neighbours nisga' committee .
going of the before with this treaty .
honourable senators , words said , he must guarantee the rights of the aboriginal for ensure a future economic strong for the British - British .
to the future , the Nisga' committee will in legislation of expand the Lands nisga' committee .
the businesses who if interested to the opportunities of development economic on the Lands nisga' committee competition that the Nisga' committee are owners of these Lands .
this is this that means the text of the preamble of the agreed final who specific that the agreed must above a certainty regarding the ownership and the use of the Lands and of the resources .
those who if opposed to the Agreement final nisga' has continuously of we do losing that .
I say to my fellow of the British - British that that not is not acceptable .
a report realized public in 1991 by Price Waterhouse plaques to the conclusion that the claims land not r?solues in British - British had cost to the province 1 billion of $ in investment and 1 500 jobs in the only sectors of the Forestry and of the mines .
the cost for the aboriginal is also very high in reason of the constraint who if separate on their opportunities of development economic .
in tax of a agreed final and editing regarding all the claims nisga' committee to the regard of the rights and 1993 aboriginal , the Nisga' committee receive a regulation who includes 196,1 million of $ paid on a period of 15 years and a territory of approximately 2 100,000 kilometres square in the Valley of the Nass , transfer who includes the rights of surface and of exploitation of the under - soil and also a right of cueillir a share of the conserving of salmon of the Newcastle Nass and of the animals threat of the region of the Nass .
however , not justified not faith to the comments tendancieux of some who argue that he there will a transfer in cash of more of 500 million of $ .
this not is absolutely not the case .
who can neat fully this that represents for the Nisga' committee the fact of rely on a lease covered strong ?
the Nisga' committee feel that this agreed their give the possible , through to the efforts that they consentiront and to their skills , of become self on the plan economic .
a tribe nisga' has prosperous exercerait a enormous effect multiplicateur on the together of the economy of the North - west of the British - British as the knows the mayor of Terrace .
of the notice of some Columbians - Columbians , he believed better let to the courts the care of if deal on the claims aboriginal .
this is a false belief .
he would on?reux and vorace of time of approach to the courts for examine each claims of a right or of a payments aboriginal for each place in British - British .
in the case Delgamuukw , the Court Supreme of the Canada has treaty of the disadvantages of the Order to the courts and supported that the negotiating component the better way of solve these problems .
some of between you if recall can - be that the case Delgamuukw is life during ten years before the courts and that , in across of bobsleds , the Court Supreme of the Canada has ordered the held of a new proceedings .
he rest still of the uncertainty further to the rights aboriginal of the Gitskan and Wet' suwet' in who were CANBAT to this case .
the certainty who if acquiescence of the treaty nisga' has shows clear the benefits of the negotiating by report to the Order to the court .
for achieve the objective revert to stop a solution practice and formed , the Agreement final nisga' has provides of the arrangements setting with certainty this that he in is of the ownership and of the use of the Lands and resources in the Valley of the Nass .
he is very important of highlight that the all if is defenders in the framework legal Canadian .
the negotiations of the Agreement final nisga' has not had not for subject of define the rights of the Nisga' committee , but rather to put end to the uncertainty in explicitant , of the way the more clear and the more specific possible , all the rights planned to the section 35 that the Nisga' committee able exercise a time that the Agreement final nisga' has will been concluded .
in the past , the Canada has obtained a form of certainty in drafts of the rights aboriginal not d?finis against of the rights d?finis abrogate of treaties by the Order to of the words as to CPAs to or to abandon to .
the objections of the First Nations to this technical of the divestiture waste the barrier Main to the conclusion of treaties modern .
the Agreement final nisga' has adopt a approach represents on the to amendment of the rights to .
according the approach quote of the right aboriginal amended , the rights aboriginal of the Nisga' committee , there including the payments , subsistent , but reticent , pursuant to the benchmarks physical and other viewed in the Agreement final nisga' has .
that has been realized possible through to the agreed of the three parties and to the fiscal of the powers suffer of the governments federal and provincial .
therefore therefore , all the rights aboriginal that the Nisga' has displace under the regime of way way will reticent and cognizant the form of the rights viewed in the Agreement final nisga' has .
the technical designed to promote the certainty proceeded therefore by the acceptance of the rights rather that their gerrymandering .
if , in despite of the Agreement final and of the Act on the Agreement final nisga' has , he is a right aboriginal other that the rights of the section 35 of the nation nisga' has viewed in the Agreement final nisga' has or whose the explicit are different , this right will abolish to rely of the date of entry in force of the bill .
in under of the new approach to the regard of the rights aboriginal , the only rights that number the Nisga' committee in under of the section 35 would those viewed in the Agreement final .
honourable senators , I think that we can see the compromise , the arrangements and the Conference of the different points of view who created the negotiating of approaches modern and r?alisables to the regard of questions difficult .
the fact that the businesses , the groups who have of the interests in the resources , the governments local and the unions support the new model of the rights shows that the you has held account of their interests to the table of the negotiations .
several detractors and opponent of the Agreement final nisga' has seem not not be involved by the facts .
to the held of that , they d?forment the truth for do vibrer of the string sensibles in view of claims a reaction negative of the share of the public .
the senators are to the aware of this who if is past in the other place where the Opposition official , the Party Reform , has tried of the do .
honourable senators , a of the criticism bilious of this treaty is the Leader of the Opposition official in British - British , Mr. Denise Campbell .
this last has admitted follows in his memory to the Committee Standing of the other place :
the people of British - British want of the treaties who concilient the rights of the Peoples aboriginal protected by the Constitution with the sovereignty of the Crown .
they want negotiate of the regulations because that that is preferable to of the regulations mobile by of the courts .
honourable senators , this is exactly this that we have fact .
Mr. . Campbell claims that the Act on the Agreement final nisga' has creates a new Order of government to the Canada and that , by therefore , he represents a amendment to the Constitution who must be Before to the population of the British - British by seaway of referendum under the regime of the bill provincial in force order of obtain the approval of the majority .
he has basically a action for do speak the courts and in obtain a interpretation .
the parties to the agreed and the constitutional who have appeared during of hearings pensioners feel that the deal Mr. Campbell not has no touchstone constitutional .
I like quote of new the Minister of the Affairs Indian and of the North Canadian who , in if ability to the other place the 26 October last , has said :
the Agreement nisga' has is of a great importance and he important of highlight that he has been concluded in the framework constitutional present of the Canada .
the Agreement nisga' has is a arrangement practice who define the rights that the nation nisga' has exercera to the words of the section 35 of the Act constitutional of 1982 .
these rights will certainly protected in under various section 35 , but that not means not that they will absolus .
the courts have confirmed that these rights can be enfreints if that if warranted .
honourable senators , the treaty nisga' has specific this who following :
the Agreement not severing not the Constitution of the Canada , including the distribution of the powers between the Canada and the British - British .
the 23 November , then that the dean Peter Hogg and the professor Patrick Monahan , of the Faculty of right Osgoode Hall , t?moignaient before the Committee Standing of the other place , the professor Monahan has said follows :
therefore , in big , my Position is that lesparagraphes 35 ( 1 ) and 35 ( 3 ) of the Constitution elongated specifically the process who is in considering of if d?rouler , to know that a agreed is concluded between a people aboriginal , the government federal and / or a province .
more far , the professor Monahan add :
that not means not that the agreements in itself doing part of the Constitution of the Canada , but rather that the rights who in clauses are protected and that any bill , federal or provincial , who would contrary to the rights abrogate of the treaty must satisfy to the criterion of excuse set by the courts when a right sufficient by the section 35 is violated , criterion who has been set in the case Sparrow .
in summary , honourable senators , nothing in the bill therein C - 9 not has the less influence on the distribution of the powers accorded to the government federal and to the provinces by the Constitution Canadian .
their power legislative remains changed .
he not fact no doubt that this question will factual a day by of the authorities more senior plac?es that those that I just of quote .
you criticized also to the bill of bill of be based on the race .
by example , the Dr. barons Martin , member Reform of Esquimalt - Juan of Fuca has wrote in a section parule 24 November 99 in the daily The Ottawa Citizen :
we considerations a sense of animosity and of the subdivision who recall the Africa of the South of the time of the apartheid .
in the even section , he declare this who following :
he must also there have a bill for all .
however , to the during of the hearing that I have clause all to the hour , the professor Bradford Morse , of the Faculty of right of the University of Ottawa , has said :
the question fundamental who 730 to well of the criticism , this is that the aboriginal not are not recognized as a group distinct in under of the race , but , as the court Supreme of the States - United the has reiterated clear to numerous occasions during to the least 170 years , some Peoples persons their own territories since of the time imm?moriaux , in as that Nations proposing having their own systems legal , cultural , church , linguistic and policy ... this who reflects their difference as entities political , and not as groups raciaux .
honourable senators , the rights accorded to the Nisga' committee in under of the section 35 of our Constitution are based on their presence before the arrived of the Europeans in the Valley of the Nass , and not on of the reasons Knee , as some the have left hear .
this self government suppose of the rights based on the presence before the arrived of the Europeans and she is carefully designed for that the rights and the interests of the other Canadians , in particular those who live in the region immediate , ensure treaties properly .
all the rights to the ownership privacy are fully protected .
all the rights to the ownership existing on of the Lands nisga' committee expect the subject of guideline imports or weaponry .
all the laws federal and provincial if apply , there including the laws provincial who not if apply not in the reserves Indian .
words said , he there will more of Telecom for the wife nisga' has , by example , who not if apply not currently according the Act on the Indian and the system of the reserves Indian .
by therefore , he there has had of forth opportunities of hear of the opinions on all the questions substantielles .
of elsewhere , this process of consultation if is finally revealed be the more exhaustive and effective of any the history of the treaties to the Canada .
in his memory , Denise Campbell has also fact referring to some to concerns related to the equality in the treaty nisga' has to , leaving hear that the rule of right not will not implemented uniform?ment to all the population of the British - British and that those - side not will not treaties also to the within of the Canada .
the argument transpired that all the population of the British - British shifted exactly the same rights not 1 not to the provisions Constitutional who indiscriminately of the rights special for some groups .
this point of view nierait to the Nisga' committee all the rights abrogate of treaties and give to hear also that he not should not there have of rights aboriginal .
in addition , this point of view Plains all the other rights special protected by the Constitution as the rights of the minorities , the rights to the education and the rights linguistic .
honourable senators , the Nisga' committee not should not have to abandon to their culture and to their language for live in our wonderful country .
he is possible , to the Canada , of be to the time aboriginal and Canadian .
the time not me allows not of address many of the questions raised by this treaty historic where the right to the self government of a people aboriginal is , for the first time , recognized by the Parliament in under of the section 35 .
of well of the manners , the rights of the not - Nisga' committee alive in territory nisga' has are am?lior?s by the Elimination of the restrictions cut by the Act on the Indian .
in Equity of tax , the Nisga' committee have agreed , in short , that their people pays of the taxes as all the other Canadians after a some period .
same to their development economic , the Nisga' committee assumeront a responsibility growing of their own funding .
they waiting with forward of power if covering of the addiction financial .
honourable senators , I have very forward that we 4:35 the debate on the bill of bill C - 9 .
I believe that , when we the regards examined to extension , we the speaking with enthusiasm .
I believe that Terry Glavin , a member of the Pacific kelp Resource Conservation Rehabilitation , of the British - British , has very well summary the situation when he has took the parolele 17 November last before his fellow of the British - British and has said :
I not doubt not that the vast majority of the Columbians - Columbians support the objective of the conclusion , with the First Nations , of treaties who ensure fair and reasonable and who doing honour to the Crown .
more far , he has added :
in preface of ?pilogue , honourable senators , I wish to highlight that few senators attendance today today have played a role grand to the within of the Committee Joint of the House of the Commons and of the Senate on the Constitution in 1980 - 1981 , who has held of the hearings and discussed on this that is become the Act constitutional of 1982 .
this was a period historic to the during of which the Charter of the rights , the patriation of the Constitution and of many other questions important have , collectively , changed the nature of the Canada , and in good part for the better , to my notice .
the section 35 account among the provisions important having been adopted to this time - there .
a sure number of senators and of members have ?prouv? a great emotion when the Minister of the Justice of the then , Jean tien , under the pressure enormous of the Committee Joint , has agreed , to the behalf of the government Trudeau , of add the section 35 to the Constitution .
the bill of bill C - 9 represents the a of the major results of our efforts of the then .
the Committee Joint was co by gun the Senator Harry Hays and by a fringant member of the Quebec , became since the fringant Senator Joyal .
I exiled then the government to the Senate , while that the former Senator Duff Duff created the Opposition .
the a of the members Standing of the other place whose the attendance was copy was Eymard Corbin , today today Senator .
that the you me pardonne if I have forgotten of mention who that this be to the Senate who has sat to this Committee to payments of member Standing .
in ending , I bring complying that a Senate whose some of the members rely more of 20 years of experience has certainly a contribution useful to contribute in Equity of policy government .
the hon. rald - A .
honourable senators , this agreed - because he if is well of a agreed , and not of a treaty - is subject to the Constitution , to the Charter of the rights and to the Code criminal .
that fact many .
my only concern , and can - be could - you the examine more in depth in Committee , has relates to the skills competitors to the regard of the supremacy of the Nisga' committee .
that is without precedent , in this sense that , in the system federal Canadian , he there has sharing of the powers between the federal and the provinces .
therefore , the supremacy is exerc?e knew by the Parliament of the Canada , knew by the legislatures legislation provincial .
the system works very well .
I have heard say that - and you me corrigerez if I me wrong - in some case , this who fact competition to the supremacy not is of jurisdiction or federal or provincial ; that means can - be say that he there has of the flou someone share in the agreed .
in the legislation where the agreed not severing not the sharing of the powers between Ottawa and the provinces , I am satisfy .
is - this the case ?
the Senator Austin :
I want thank the Senator Beaudoin of his question .
as I the have said in my speech , he there has a clause particular who specific that this agreed not affects in nothing the distribution of the powers between the Canada and the British - British .
therefore , he there has the section 35 perpetuate the rights planned in this agreed .
these rights receive a protection constitutional , but that not affects in nothing the distribution of the powers .
the Constitution , outcome of the agreed between the government federal and the provinces , protects the rights of the aboriginal a time that the Parliament and the British - British have ratified the agreed to the average of a bill .
the Senator Beaudoin :
I not have absolutely no problem with the section 35 , because he give of the rights actions to the aboriginal in the Constitution of the Canada .
I am all to fact in favour of these rights , because the aboriginal were here the first .
my question door simply on the Domination of a power by report to a other when of the powers are exercised concurremment .
when this bill of bill will examined by a Committee , I hope that you chair this question more in depth .
the rest of the agreed not me valid no problem .
the Senator Austin :
I forward with forward this study .
the Senator raises a point essential .
I suppose that in some case , the powers of the Council tribal nisga' has discuss Domination , particularly in this who respect the rights linguistic and Cultural .
however , they are always subjects to the criterion of the uniqueness reasonable statement in the v. Sparrow , because this because fact part of our right constitutional .
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , I have listened carefully the speech of the Senator and a of my questions door on the quota of salmon lighten in the Newcastle Nass .
however , he there has a average by which the Minister and the Crown can give of the quota of fishing , be the section 7 of the Act on the fisheries .
the government can even create of the reserves exclusives of fishing , this who is arisen in the treaty nisga' has .
as you the specific in the section 7 , that must if do by the Adopted of a legislation legislative valid .
the treaty provides a zone of fishing exclusive who will then prot?g?e in under of the section 35 of the Constitution .
by therefore , the parliamentarians c?deront their power legislative dealing the distribution of this resources common .
for a of the first time of the history , of the parliamentarians off to a duty , expected in the Constitution , of protect a resources public .
the n?gociateurs have - they held account of this aspect or have - you had right to a sitting of information to this about ?
the Senator Austin :
honourable senators , I not am without doubt not also well prepared that the Senator Comeau to examine to this stage - side the consequences exact of the Helicopter of the zone of fishing .
I know that the Act on the fisheries and the regulations aff?rents if apply to the Hempline in under of the Agreement nisga' has .
a plan of fishing annual must be presented and , as the has said the hon. Senator Comeau , the Nisga' committee have a agreed providing a right to a share specific of the crop of fish .
to my notice , you hand a better response to your questions during the discussions in Committee .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
my question if directed to the Senator Austin .
the section 35 of the Act constitutional of 1982 just all fair after the sections 1 to 34 who constitute the Charter of the rights and freedoms .
is - he correct of say that the Charter of the rights and freedoms not if applies not to the section 35 , but that in under of this treaty , the Charter of the rights and freedoms if apply ?
of fact , I believe that the Charter if applies in under of this agreed , this who authority a more great protection in a perspective of rights of the human that a legislation who not falls that of the section 35 ?
the Senator Austin :
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , to the time of initiate the debate on the principle of the bill of bill , I want clarification the rights that persons the Indiennes in under of the bill of bill C - 31 , the amendment to the Act on the Indian who has failing the notwithstanding 12 ( 1 ) b ) of the former Act on the Indian .
some repeatedly that the to right of r?version . to
this right is - he continued in under of the Agreement nisga' has , or if is - he of a more great or of a least great protection for the women who farm demobilizing the community nisga' has ?
the Senator Austin :
honourable senators , I not then answer to this question that in words broad , in saying that met given that the Charter if applies and that the Charter banned the discrimination , I believe that the rights of the women nisga' committee are now equal to those of all the other women Canadian .
the Assent Royal
notice
his Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that he has received the communication next :
the 16 December 99
Mr. the Speaker ,
I have the honour of you obligations that the very hon. Antonio Lamer , Justice in Leader of the Court Supreme of the Canada , in his quality of Governor General Acting , if obey to the House of the Senate today today , the 16 December 99 , to 17 p.m. , order of give the Assent Royal to some bills of bill .
the hon. Conformity Speaker of the Senate Ottawa
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , as you you have could you in pay account when I have fact Reading , this is the Justice in Leader outgoing who come here this night .
this will his last Assent Royal before of take his retirement and , without doubt , the last Assent Royal of this millennium .
I hope that all the honourable senators able attend to the reception who will given in the honour of the Justice in Leader to the outcome of the Assent Royal .
the Act on the Parliament of the Canada
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Grafstein , seconded by the hon. Senator Callbeck , seconded to the second Reading of the bill of bill S - 5 , Act amend the Act on the Parliament of the Canada ( poet official of the Parliament ) . - (
the hon. Senator Hays ) .
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , the Senator Grafstein knows that I not have not many of enthusiasm for his bill of bill .
however , I him am grateful of have before the Senate of this proposal .
if I have well including , the bill of bill S - 5 intended to institutionnaliser the poetry in proposing a poet official of the Parliament .
however , puisqueMon lag not me has not licences of me prepare as I the chair d?sir? for express my resistance .
the Senator Grafstein me press since 48 p.m. of take the speak before the adjournment of the illiteracy order that this bill of bill can be referred to a Committee for study and audition of witnesses of his believed , I me reducing today today of the satisfy , but this not will not necessarily my last word .
he has had the time of write his discour , of there thinking , of take of the notice and of receive board .
he has had of the months for this do .
he like now that the few persons to the Parliament who live and mangent literature if pr?cipitent abracadabrant in the twofold of his enthusiasm .
he must know yet that the process of the production independent , whose he him sometimes sometimes of as discourse the amount , request of the time for the research , the reflection and the drafting .
finally , I accommoderai the hon. Senator since the seriousness of the ideas not is never in itself a fiscal futile .
that said , I hear now that the debate will adjourned after my remarks .
as by accident , but what pleased coincidence , I relisais in end of week Edgar Allan Poe , his life and his books , a wrote of Charles Baudelaire 115 of 1852 .
I have for these two monuments litt?raires that are these two great po?tes , that I not have never unceasingly of attend to the during of the years , a admiration illimit?e .
I am therefore biais? , please - the .
gold , I retrouvais this sentence of the labour of Baudelaire , and I quote :
Pellan of Vigny has wrote a book , ( Stello , 1832 ) for shown that the place of the poetry not is or in a r?publique , or in a monarchy simultaneously , or in a monarchy constitutional [ ... [
and Baudelaire add :
[ ... [ and human not him has answered .
Stello promotes a point of view well particular , that I sharing almost fully .
I not have not the time , for the reason existing to the beginning of my comments , of enter in the detail .
for be honest , and without argue that Stello can be transpos? mutatis mutandis of the situation of the poetry of 1830 to similar who prevails to our then , he there has a consideration fundamental to clerical , of the least I the think .
he said :
mixed the life po?tique of the life policy .
and for there reach :
let to C?sar this who belongs to C?sar , this is - to - say the right of be to each hour of each day honni in the street , You in the palais , fought sourdement , min? length , fought handcuff and gone violemment .
second prescription of the Murder Noir to the poet :
only and free , accomplish his mission .
follow the conditions of his be , improve of the influence of the Associations , even the more talk .
because that the Solitude only is the source of the inspirations .
and I in proceeded many , the essential met statement .
the essential , this is the nature even of the work of creation po?tique that you not needy embrigader .
a versificateur , a rimeur paid to the verset , yes , can - be , but not a authentique poet - that never !
I not then me imagine that a poet in the soul like if emprisonner in the carcan that includes the word official .
in fact , he must ask the question of a other way , he me seems .
what is the border between the words and the power ?
I you say that she is of the minceur of the criticism of the guillotine who d?colleta Andr Ch?nier , poet .
I you conclusion also that this border if presented jadis under the form of the Index Roman or of the court who condamna the poet of Baudelaire , who in bloody as of other .
that you give only a very small idea , for highlight that the poetry not must nothing of the all to the C?sars , to the Popes , to the empereurs , to the despotes of all acabit .
and this is to the honour of the poet .
today today , the border between the words and the policy is also distante that the space who 1,600 of his land native the poet exil? and pers?cut? .
I not have unfortunately not had the time of read the comments of my hon. friend , the Senator Kinsella .
I the bring during the adjournment , after the illiteracy .
I believe however , for have heard the any end of his speech of the other day , that he baigne in a nostalgia surann?e .
I me in bring a better idea under little , and if I have difficulty interpretation his comments , I determine me in apologize .
I consider that the proposal of the Senator Grafstein has a smells of moisi victorien , and I me apologize of the say in presence of the joli buste who portrait the before of this Room of Assembly , fair beyond - above of your head , Your Hon. .
that is - he came of our ability of dream , of our talents of explorateurs ?
this is as if we , Canadians , were still ?cartel?s beyond - above of a ab?me without extension and also vast that the coast who we 1,600 of our mothers patries ; ?cartel?s between our past and our challenges .
if hang to a practice or to a poised vacuum of sense would - he a other event of our ins?curit? national ?
this is as if we roof of mature for innover .
are - we to this point d?ficients ?
I thought , but am - I illusionn? , that our tradition democratic Corel for we covering of the carcans and of the ways of be to the world rendered .
I not talking not for the poet , I timely a conviction admired .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , to the behalf of the Senator Staunton - Lynch , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act on the Immigration
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Stands of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I like obtain the leave for that this section rest recorded to the behalf of the hon. Senator Grafstein , who has the intention of in speak .
his Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators that this section rest recorded to the behalf of the hon. Senator Grafstein ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the debate is order . )
languages official
Adopted of the second report of the Committee Joint Standing
the Senate proceeded to the study of the second report of the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official ( the uniqueness bilingual of the capital of the Canada ) , presented to the Senate the 14 December 99 . - ( Conformity hon. Senator Losier - Losier ) .
the hon. Rose - Marie Losier - Losier :
honourable senators , I move the Adopted of this report .
in proposing the Adopted of this report , I like quote the very hon. Pierre Elliott Trudeau during of the ceremony of the proclamation of the Constitution , the 17 April 1982 :
I talking of a Canada where the men and the women of ascendance aboriginal , French or British , or became of other crops actually evidence of the showing of live together in this country in the peace , the justice and the respect hills .
I talking of a Canada proud and strengthened of the fact of his nature bilingual , of a Canada where the people believe in the sharing and the Assistance , not not in the contribution of barriers regional .
this is in the spirit of this vision that the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official believes and working to the Defence of the promotion of the rights linguistic of the communities English and French of the Canada , and this is also in the spirit of this vision that the members of the Committee quiet the Adopted of this second report presented the 14 December .
the hon. M. DeWare :
honourable senators , we are of agreed with the recommendations formula in the report presented by the Senator Losier - Cools and we are loans to support the motion of Adopted .
of the Senators :
hear !
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
review of the regulatory
Adopted of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing
the hon. line Hervieux - Hervieux :
honourable senators , I move the Adopted of this report .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , you pleasure - he of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
the Union Monetary European
the report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign - Stands of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
the hon. Peter A . Stollery :
honourable senators , I like that the section No. 4 remains recorded to my behalf .
I think that I must a word of explanation to the honourable senators met given that that fact 12 days that this section found to the Paper .
I have took the responsibility of this question after the departure of the Senator Stewart who has took his retirement recently .
the Committee of the Affairs foreign has been very served these last time .
I me assessing of this question , but not in have not had the time until here .
( the debate is order . )
the ascertain tabled pursuant to the Act on the transport to the Canada Authorize some carriers Threat unambiguous to negotiate and to conclude any agreement naively - Adopted of the third report of the Committee of the transport and of the Communications
the Senate proceeded to the study of the third report of the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications ( hiring of the staff ) , presented to the Senate the 15 December 99 . - ( Conformity hon. Senator Bacon ) .
the hon. Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , I move the Adopted of this report .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , you pleasure - he of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the report is adopted . )
the Ontario
the bill of bill on the restructuring regional - Conformity refusal of declare Ottawa officially bilingual - Inquiry - Suspended of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the inquiry of the hon. Senator Poulin , calling the attention of the Senate on the decision of the government of the Ontario of not not adopt a recommendation designed to do of Ottawa a city bilingual after his restructuring proposed . - (
the hon. Senator Fraser ) .
the hon. Joan Fraser :
honourable senators , when I rise the speak here to the House , I trying in General of use the two languages official .
today today however , I me exprimerai in English only for insist my Senators to similar of all those who exhortent the government of the Ontario to adopt a bill careful that the new great city of Ottawa will officially bilingual .
I me adresserai to you in English only because that I believe that he is important of recognize that this is a question who respect all the Canadians , the English , the francophones , those that we lifelong to the Quebec the allophones and the aboriginal , that they speak the two languages official or only a or even no of the two .
he there has good number of reasons for expelling the city of Ottawa , and not only the region of the capital national who belongs to the government federal , should be officially bilingual .
the first , who if ranges to the plan human , this is that a great number of francophones there live , 125 100,000 I believe .
I know this that that means of see his own government hesitate to recognize the legitimacy of his community linguistic , his right to be intrigued to share full for this that she is , this is - to - say a attribut of a of the Peoples founding of this country .
I know this that that means of hear his government provincial say someone something of the kind to Regardez as we you staffs well .
you invitations be grateful for all these good things that we do for you .
not asking particularly not to be recognized for this that you are .
not you watch not to this that you you confer of the rights .
what Appendix in bad - you ?
that fact difficulty , honourable senators .
that you give the Appendix that home you , in your own province , not are not considered as a citizen to share full even if your ancestors have contributed to build this country and that the Constitution anthologies your language as the a of the two languages official of the country .
honourable senators , we know all that , since a generation , the governments beneficial successive , there including the government present , have worked of the efforts biodegradable for put on foot and offer a vast range of services of language French and for help the francophones to build and to control their institutions community essential .
well that we regrettions can - be all profoundly the situation to the Civic fought and that we esp?rions can - be , as I the getting , that she will resolved of way satisfactorily , he is also important of recognize that the government spend present has took the initiative of serves to the francophones the control of the schools French .
this not is not nothing .
I in realize tribute to the government of the Ontario .
we understand all that we sit here , to the Parliament federal and that , to the Canada , the municipalities authority of the jurisdiction of the provinces .
we know that the creation of the m?gaville is a case of jurisdiction provincial .
he not there has surely no of between we who the difference .
this is also exceedingly that Ottawa is a case Special .
this is a municipality Ontario , certainly , but this not is not a municipality as the other , because Ottawa and Ottawa only is the capital national .
the region of the capital national not is not the capital .
this is a region , a nice region , created and necessarily as he must , a wonderful recognition geographical of the importance of the capital for all the Canadians ; but Ottawa , the city of Ottawa , is the capital .
to the Canada , we have two languages official .
this is a aspect basic of our history , of our existence as country .
this is a of the pillars of our identity and of our political national .
how if can - he that the capital of the country not should not intellects this fact wonderful ?
what message that signal he to the Canadians , not only to the francophones but to all the Canadians , when we say that , even if we have two languages official , only the a of they is really official here , in the capital she - even ?
honourable senators , the spring last , he me has been given of visit Bruxelles , the capital of a country to the taken with of the problems linguistic who rel?guent the ourselves to of the ridiculously of children .
I am appropriate that you know that the Belgium is divided in cantons French and flamands , but , officially , in practice and of by his laws , Bruxelles is a city bilingual .
he should in be therefore and we should we in sustains .
of jump argue that , if we insist for that the city of Ottawa be bilingual , we must also insist for that similar of Hull the be also .
that raises a problem of resort provincial .
in as that Qu?b?coise of language English , I then add uphill that the government of the Quebec confer to Hull the status official of city bilingual , as he the has fact for of other municipalities , there including similar where I ahead .
but that not respect in nothing the city of Ottawa .
I am appropriate , honourable senators , that we have all been delighted of learn that the municipality of Ottawa has asked to the government of the Ontario of recognize to this nephew - city the status of city bilingual .
I believe know that only the government provincial can recognize this status to a municipality Ontario .
he there has had of the precedents before the courts to this effect .
we know that some sector opposed a resistance to this legislation .
any the resistance active whose I am to the aware just of English , and a great part of this resistance seems if express by the fear , a fear of the consequences that the status bilingual of the capital national could have for the English who live to Ottawa .
well course , many of people concerned the change and sometimes , this fear is valid ; however , a little of change is positive .
a little of change allows of build a future better for our country and for we all , who are so penchant of in be the citizens .
we can arrive to embrasser this change .
I expeditiously to my parents , of the English of the Nova - Nova , proud of their roots , who remontaient to 200 years in our country .
they not have never spoke French .
many that I far , no of their ancestors not spoke French , the ga?lique , yes , but not the French .
when my parents were young , the question of the bilingualism and of the Bilingualism not pointait even not to the darkest .
in the years 60 , when the Canada English has finally including this part of the history , of the identity and of the future of our country , my parents have been among the million of Canadians English to the understand them also and to if outlining of the identity bilingual and biculturelle of our country .
they not have not learned the French , but they have fact in sort that I the apprenne , because they felt that all the Canadians who in had the possible should speak the two languages of the Canada .
they were proud that I mandatory learned the French .
I their am ?ternellement grateful of me in have offered the possible .
why have of the flags , by example , if the symbolisme not is not important ?
the symbolisme is a something extremely important for we all .
and where is - this more important that in the capital of the country ?
finally , I suggestion that if Ottawa not is not a city as the other , the Ontario is a province not as the other .
she has always contributed to several of the elements of our identity whose we are if proud - the tolerance , the openness of spirit , the balance whose we we targuons .
I urge therefore the government of the Ontario , a time still , of assume his role historic of Leader of leadership .
as we the have heard in this chamber today today and the days precedents , you is in considering of study very seriously of other Means for that Ottawa gave the status of city bilingual that she deserves , to my notice .
a action in justice is portion by our colleague , the hon. Senator Joyal , without doubt the more infatigable advocate of the rights of the minorities that we flagrant .
he is question that the government federal ruined .
if he must in arrive there , that he in be therefore , but he would so more preferable that the government of the Ontario convey this that have fact as of his predecessors before him , that he states his leadership and sits his role historic who is of if show the proud protector of this that he there has of better to the Canada .
I urge of all my heart the government of the Ontario to hold account of the supplications of this House and of as of Canadians .
of the Senators :
hear !
his Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Beaudoin , I must unfortunately you inform that he not rest that a minute before that I leaving the Chair order that we tarred to the Assent Royal .
managed that she will completed , we reprendrons the debate .
honourable senators , the Senate if adjourned now to pleasure in appeals the arrived of the very hon. Acting of His Excellency the Gouverneure general .
[ French [
I have the honour of you do know that he has Sign to His Excellency the Gouverneure general of Appear the Honouring of letters patent under his Sign and Manual establish the hon. Antonio Lamer , Justice in Leader of the Court Supreme of the Canada , his Acting , and the constituting of explicitly to the behalf of His Excellency , all the actions necessary , to the grateful of His Excellency .
the Clerk of the Senate give Reading of the commission .
he pleasure to the hon. Acting of His Excellency the Gouverneure general of give the Assent Royal to the bill of bill following :
bill Authorize implementation in implement of the Agreement concluded between the government of the Canada , the governments of States members of the Agency spatiale European , the government of the Japan , the government of the Federation of Russia and the government of the States - United of America on the cooperation Current to the Station spatiale international civil and Dolly of the changes related to of other laws , ( Chapter of bill C - 4 , Chapter 35 , 99 )
the hon. Gilbert chairpersons , Speaker of the House of the Commons , if directed then to the hon. Acting of the Gouverneure general in these words :
that he please to Your Hon. .
the House of the Commons of the Canada has voted some appropriation required for allow to the government of defray to the Estimates of the service public .
to the behalf of the House of the Commons , I presented to Your Hon. the bill of bill following :
bill Authorize granting to Majesty Majesty of appropriation for the Administration public federal during the fiscal if ending the 31 March 2000 , ( Chapter of bill C - 21 , Chapter 36 , 99 )
to this bill of bill , I please humbly Your Hon. of give the Assent Royal .
he pleasure to the hon. Acting of the Gouverneure general of give the Assent Royal to the bill of bill .
the House of the Commons if withdrew .
he pleasure to the hon. Acting of His Excellency the Gouverneure general of if withdraw .
the Ontario
the bill on the restructuring regional - Conformity refusal of the government spend of adopt the recommendation designed to do of Ottawa a city bilingual - Inquiry - Continued of the debate
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the inquiry of the hon. Senator Poulin , calling the attention of the Senate on the decision of the government of the Ontario of not not adopt a recommendation designed to do of Ottawa a city bilingual after his restructuring proposed . - (
the hon. Senator Fraser ) .
the hon. rald - A .
honourable senators , the Canada is a federation bilingual and originators , therefore that the recognize our various laws Constitutional of 1867 to our days .
he is in the Order of the things that the capital of this country be also bilingual .
several States federal have a capital bilingual , even even multilingue .
he is exactly that to the words of the Constitution Canadian , the municipalities authority of the jurisdiction provincial , according the subsection 92 ( 8 ) of the Act constitutional of 1867 .
this is say that the structures and the powers of a board City are the attribut of the provinces .
you must meet the sharing of the powers .
however , Ottawa not is not a city as the other , this is the capital of the Canada .
and to the heart of this country , the major institutions federal are bilingual : the Parliament federal , the Court Supreme of the Canada , Rideau Hall and the departments .
a section of the Constitution of the Canada , the section 16 , treating of the capital of the Canada and declare that the seat of the government federal is to Ottawa .
in the v. Munro of 1966 , the Court Supreme of the Canada has recognized that the Parliament federal can legislation on the capital national in under of his jurisdiction r?siduelle in under of the clause : peace , Order and good government .
in this case , the Court Supreme has recognized that the Parliament federal can create a region of the capital national , tough a Commission of the capital national and habiliter this commission to expropriate of the settlements for the embellissement of the capital national .
this Commission of the capital national is Before to the Act on the languages official since she is a body created by a bill federal .
the bill federal on the languages official , who highlights on a foot of equality the use of the language English and of the language French in the institutions federal , speaks on the jurisdiction r?siduelle of the Parliament Canadian , as the has establishes the v. Jones of 1975 , a judgment unanimous of our more senior court .
the part VII of the Act on the languages official allows a some extension of the bilingualism and has more that a value d?claratoire in right , she has a value required .
he there has therefore , according the Constitution , a sure sharing of the powers in the field who we concern .
the section 16 of the Act constitutional of 1867 has been interpretation lib?ralement and , to my notice , you must continue to the do .
some legal have already examined the question of a real District federal , as to Washington and several other capitales federal .
they have examined the question of a capital on the two settle of the River , and also the question of a District federal on the two settle .
I not want not open this debate today today , because he not is not currently before we .
this who is before we , however , this is the question of a capital bilingual , or more or least .
this is already many .
my colleague , the Senator Serge Joyal , has invoqu? , to the support of his Minister in favour of a capital bilingual , the principles identified by the Court Supreme in the referred on the 237 of the Quebec , for encadrer the negotiations between the Quebec and the Canada or between a province and the Canada , this is - to - say the constitutionnalisme , the democracy , the rule of right , the respect of the rights of the minorities and the federalism .
if you can contractual these principle to the opportunity of a 237 , they can certainly be prevailing for the renewal of the federalism .
I end my presentation legal on the remarks of the Justice Cartwright , in the v. Munro , in which this jurist invoquait the theory of the interest national :
I can instalments imagine the subject of a legislation legislative who exceeds more clear the interests local or provincial and who interest more the Canada in his together that extend of the development , of the preserve and of the improvement of the region of the capital national .
the Justice Jean Beetz , in the referred on the Act anti - inflation of 1976 , wrote that :
you tell without doubt that he there has a difference between the capital and the region of the capital .
I conclude that the capital of our country if must of be bilingual .
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. Serge Joyal :
honourable senators , I have listened with many of interest the presentation of the Senator Beaudoin .
I like bringing to his attention a distinction on the deal regarding the part VII of the Act on the languages official that the Committee on the languages official has had the opportunity of study .
the Senator Gauthier , this week , me transmettait a information on the nature specific of the partieVII.
you have supported that the part VII had a uniqueness executing , and not only d?claratoire .
currently , a because in Court federal difference specifically the nature of the uniqueness d?claratoire of the part VII of the Act on the languages official .
as she not is not couverte by the sections of the bill who inconsistent of the Order judicial possible , this part of the bill 730 to the review and to the order of the courts Canadian .
I not am not of this notice in the context of reference of the Court Supreme on the 237 of the Quebec .
this question has been raised by the Senator Gauthier by her the Speaker pro tempore to payments of co of the Committee on the languages official .
this question fact currently the subject of a debate before the courts .
to the time where you in happen to the step of the plaidoiries , the arguments d?velopp?s by the Court Superior of the Ontario , in the because of the Civic fought , discuss their exercise for the Court federal who will to if deal of way to clarification a time for all the application real of the part VII of the Act on the languages official .
as you the know , she would of a exhaustion importance for define the responsibility of the government Canadian to the regard of his role of promotion active to the support of the minorities of languages official English or French .
I wanted bringing to the attention of the hon. Senator this part important that the senators Gauthier and Losier - Losier have underlined in their trade to the about of the business of this Committee .
the Senator Beaudoin :
honourable senators , in the extension , we wish the even something .
if this is challenged , you hope that this will rejected and that you find to the part VII of the Act on the languages official a value not simply d?claratoire , but also imp?rative .
that me remind always the famous v. on the section 133 , in which a court supply had said that the use of the French and of the English was indicatif and not imperative .
the Court Supreme , in a decision of 9 to 0 , had corrected the become in saying that : when the Constitution talking of way clear and specific , this is imperative .
we we battons all for the even result .
this is challenged , but this is our regime .
you can do argue of the arguments very strong for argue that this Act on the languages official has a uniqueness imperative to the partieVII.
he must try of do argue our arguments to the court .
the hon. Ione Christensen :
honourable senators , this is in as that CIBC unilingual that I rise in the debate on the decision of the government of the Ontario of not not give following to a recommendation designed to declare region bilingual the city restructured of Ottawa .
filter of the corner of the Canada located the more to the Western , I find futile the idea even of hold this debate .
the capital of the Canada not can that be bilingual .
the Canada and the bilingualism are seldom ; they not doing that a .
since 1898 , the Yukon has a community French very active and proud .
today today , his members are represented by the Association French yukonnaise .
he there has a school French and the rate of fr?quentation of the programs of immersion in French in our system of education is very high .
of the Canadians of across are came to the Yukon for that their children learn and shared this great culture bilingual .
the question not falls or of a municipality , or of a province or of a jurisdiction tax .
this is a question of unity .
the reaction of the province contigu? to similar who account the more strong population of Canadians francophones is incredibly cites .
this not was not necessary .
Ottawa , our capital national , should intellects our duality and we not can accept nothing of least .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , he there has had a agreement .
the recommendations of the Commission Royal on the Peoples aboriginal relatively to the service government aboriginal
Adopted of the report of the Committee of the Peoples aboriginal
leave having been granted of return to the reports of Committee :
the Senate proceeded to the study of the second report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal ( hiring of staff ) presented to the Senate the 15 December 99 . - ( Conformity hon. Senator Watt ) .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) move the Adopted of the report .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of examine the state of the system of health
the Order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Kirby , seconded by the hon. Senator Mercier :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology be authorized to examine for in do report the state of the system of health to the Canada .
more particularly , that the Committee be authorized to examine :
has ) Changes principles basic on capably is based the system public of health to the Canada ;
b ) Conformity historic of the system of health to the Canada ;
c ) Changes systems of health public in of other country ;
d ) Conformity system of health to the Canada - pressure and constraint ;
e ) Conformity role of the government federal in the system of health to the Canada ;
that the Committee presented his report final to the more later the 14 December 2001 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , by derogation to the rules usuelles , to table all report deposited of the Clerk of the Senate if the Senate not seat not to this time - there ; and that the report be reputation have been tabled to the House of the Senate . - (
the hon. Senator Di Nino ) .
the hon. Marjory LeBreton :
honourable senators , to payments of deputy - chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology , I like comment briefly the motion .
he not is not indiff?rent that the few last words who will plebiscite to the Senate during this millennium identification on this about .
that falls to point appointed , because , to the enter of the new millennium , we meantime the Authorized of the Senate for study the state of the services of health to the Canada and in do report .
this study if imposes of emergency , and the Senate is particularly well opportunity for enable this study , if you the compared to the Commons , where of other factors bother often this type of work .
honourable senators , as all the other members of the Committee , I support this initiative .
the question deserves a study serious .
he there has many of ideas false r?pandues to the about of the services of health to the Canada .
we must do opposite to of many realities .
we must we questions on the role of the government federal and the means to take for pay the system economically viable .
I request respectfully the Authorized of do this study .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
there has he of other senators who wish take the speak ?
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I me in tiendrai to two brief comments .
all of first , to the light of the debates who have had held to the Senate the week last on the costs of the study , I digress that the Committee not contemplated not of spending more of 10 100,000 $ of here to the 31 March 2000 .
then , for this who respect the next fiscal , this not will not a study angry offers , because we we propose of do the most of our comparaisons international to the average of visioconf?rences who , as has could the see the Committee of the Banking , working extremely well .
even if the framework of reference is vast , I not me forward not to this that this study be angry offers .
finally , honourable senators , I wish to present a observation on the way whose we hope manage this study .
I believe that the Senator Carstairs , in speaking of the way whose the Committee has treaty the bill of bill C - 6 , has fact pointed that , rigoureusement speaking , our Committee steering if usage of two Liberal and of a Conservative .
of the even manner , when the Committee steering has began to establish the framework of reference of this study , we have asked to the Senator Keon of if join to we .
the Senator Keon has could we help to establish the mandate in question and we has given of the ideas on the way of deal that .
to the first hour , this morning , I him have wrote that I find important that he continues of play a role in this study .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Kirby :
as for the bill of bill C - 6 , we fonctionnerons with a Committee steering composed of four persons , be the senators Carstairs and me - even , of this side - side , and the senators LeBreton and Keon , of the other .
I hope that the senators essaieront of we ensure the know - do of the Senator Keon to the during of the two next years that conducting this study .
honourable senators , this are there the comments that I wanted do .
I have found , in me entretenant with of the senators of the two sides , that this study raises a interest considerable .
his Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Affairs foreign
Authorized to the Committee of until the date of the Tabled of his report final on the study of the amendment embraced to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
the hon. Peter A . Stollery , pursuant to the notice du9 December 99 , move :
that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the Electronic of the results of his study contained in his report final , and this until to the 31 March 2000 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices usual , to table his report deposited of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be reputation have been tabled to the Senate .
( the motion is agreed . )
the recommendations of the Commission Royal on the Peoples aboriginal relatively to the service government
Authorized given to the Committee of until the Tabled of the report final
the hon. Landon Pearson , to the behalf of the Senator Watt , pursuant to the notice of the 14 December 99 , move :
that , by derogation to the Order adopted by the Term 24 November 99 , the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal be authorized to do a study and to present a report on the recommendations of the Commission Royal on the Peoples aboriginal ( Document Parliamentary No. 2 / 35 - 508 . )
relatively to the service government aboriginal and more particularly , to obtain the point of view of the Peoples aboriginal and of the other involved on the questions following :
2 . the mechanisms necessary to the ushered of the new relations structurelles ;
3 . the models of self government aboriginal necessary for answer to the needs of the Peoples aboriginal and for concorder with the new relations structurelles ;
that the Committee be authorized to table his report final to the more later the 16 February 2000 , and that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the Electronic of the results of his study contained in his report final , and this until to the 29 February 2000 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices usual , to table his report deposited of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be reputation have tabled to the Senate .
the motion is agreed .
the Senate
the granting of a status bilingual to the city of Ottawa - Adopted of the motion
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier , pursuant to the notice of the 15 December 99 , move :
that , of the notice of the Senate of the Canada , Ottawa , the capital of the Canada should be officially bilingual .
I hope that this debate continue of be objectively .
in the Constitution of this country , these two languages have equality of status and of privileges .
this motion request to the province of the Ontario of declare the new quoted of Ottawa officially bilingual .
the word to official to - if you if referring to a dictionnaire - means say :
[ ... [ who ?mane of a authority intrigued , properly deviants , Cabinet , [ ... [
in this who me respect , the new quoted of Ottawa must be officially bilingual and therefore conferring to the two languages official of the country the status of equality , and met of the jurisdiction provincial .
I will me explain .
before - yesterday , to the during of a debate , I have said clear that the province of the Ontario if must of declare bilingual the capital national .
many of between you have participated to the debate and I you in thank , because that heritage our Position .
Mr. . Shortliffe has of more noted in his report on the restructuring municipale that he would of the resort of the board of the municipality of Ottawa of determine the scope and the nature of the services who will available in the two languages official of the country .
he not there has no doubt that a municipality of the Ontario can , by regulation , decide of give few services in the two languages official of the country .
a regulation City can change very quickly according the mood of the board City , this who not authority not a certainty to the fiscal of the two languages official .
I indicates in saying that the Senate has always continued the objective of represent the regions of the country and particularly of defend his minorities .
this is for this reason that I am happy today today of see that several of between you have participated to this debate and I hope that you received many to support the motion .
honourable senators , I am born to Ottawa .
I there have past any my life .
I have of the difficulty to draw that the capital of my country not can be that unilingual or , for be optimism , not can not be bilingual .
I request to my friends of the Senate of support this motion .
the hon. No A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , this is a honour for me of support this motion very important .
I poured that you can understand why a Senator of the Opposition and a Senator of the province of the New - Brunswick must support with conviction this motion .
our province is officially bilingual .
the Senator Nolin :
this is the only .
the Senator Kinsella :
the only province to the Canada to be officially bilingual .
the Senator Louis Robichaud has been a pioneer since he is the author of the first Act on the languages official of our province .
I must also highlight the work of the Senator Simard , who continues of defend the bilingualism in our province .
then , for we , Scotians - Brunswickois , he is logical that the capital of our country be bilingual .
this is by principle and by duty , and in as that Senator of the New - Brunswick , that I underscored and that I support this motion .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , all those who familiar my long friendship for the Senator Gauthier know very well that I not brief not stay silent .
I will therefore me join without definitive to this that the Senator Kinsella and Gauthier have said .
not not that I not me sente not to the comfortable in the other language official .
I working in this language all the days since that I am came in the other House and still , if I not had not the Senator Eileen and few other to the opportunity for correct my English , you verriez that I in have still many to learn .
I me am always considered as the Deputy of the Senator Gauthier .
this was a trick that some not appreciation not , but I not have never had shame of say that in all his concerns , I the appuyais .
this is him who me has open the doors , to across the Canada , of all the minority who if entirely of the survivance of the fact French to the Canada .
he me has Message all his contacts , that this be in British - British , in Alberta and even in the provinces a little more r?calcitrantes .
honourable senators , he is very easy of affected for if pay popular .
my opposite - to - opposite who me have known of the other side know that I can defend a opinion with passion , what that be the side where I seat .
I could be very popular deposited of a group of Canadians but , in even time , exposing those who not are not of agreed with me .
this is too easy .
I the have fact in your province , Your Hon. , in the years 1960 , when I have took the speak before the Daughters of report Eastern Star , who me had of first rejected as lecturer .
I was supposed convey the good wishes Mr. Pearson , who party go to Ottawa .
rather that of return to Quebec and exposing those who me had rejected , I am went directly home they , in claiming that I not had not received their message .
know - you how of profound I me am made home the Daughters of report Eastern Star ?
more often that words , I have been ?pingl? for my opinions political on of other subjects .
I not have never chosen the seaway of the facility , who introducing to exposing .
he there in has who would almost loans to you assassiner in reason of your opinions political on some subjects .
even to a age carried as the hall , I continues to hope that I r?ussirai to in do change of other of opinion .
the half of between them not if were never involved to the policy .
the half of between them if Torontonians very tristes in reason of the process and not shared not the opinions political that we have here .
however , after least of a half - hour of patientes explanation , they want now return for see the honourable senators to the work because that they have seen the members of the House of the Commons more earlier today today .
I cohesive my Senators to similar of the Senator Kinsella and thank our friend , the great champion .
this not is not easy of be champion in Ontario , as this not the is not in of other provinces .
this is the reason for which I congratulate the Senator Kinsella .
he not has not afraid of express his point of view .
I could appoint all the other , but I will me alone because that I in oublierais .
I refers the Senator Kinsella because that he if is sir and I the in thank .
I him door any my friendship and in all time , he me find to his sides for the good because , this is - to - say the because Canadian , but the because Canadian well misunderstood .
certainly , you can launched the world in vantant the regarded of the Canada , but in rentrant to the country he not must forget the comments that you has held .
I just all fair of go of the Pakistan and of other site .
they grab in the Canada of the things that the Canadians have of the difficulty to see .
you not can not you adjourn freely to the outside of well of the country as you the fact to the Canada , then go to the country and refuse of purposeful for the democracy .
this is a country constantly in seaway of too .
that demands of the patience .
he must sometimes if keep of seek vengeance , as some of between we the doing .
honourable senators , each of we has a duty .
we should we r?engager to the service of the Canada .
he suffice for that that per senators taking share to 10 events each year for defend the Canada and explain this that means say be Canadian .
this is this that the Senator Gauthier trying of do and this is also this that I trying of do , to my way .
the hon. Norman K . Atkins :
honourable senators , I wish to congratulate the Senator Gauthier for his motion .
I find that he agreeable perfectly that the last section recorded to the Paper gave relates to this question .
in as that Senator spend who not is not bilingual - and I in am sorry - , I seriously hope that this motion will agreed to the unanimously .
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. Bill Rompkey :
honourable senators , I rise to comments of this motion , and that , for two major reasons .
first , I wish to support the Senator Gauthier .
the Senator Gauthier and me have been elected all two in 1972 .
I wish simply to support my colleague , the last Parliamentary of the promotion 1972 .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I am sorry of you interrupt , but he is 18 p.m. .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I move of not not see the hour .
his Hon. the Speaker :
are - you of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Rompkey :
I not have not the intention of clerical the Senate , but I like say few words .
I add saluting the Senator Gauthier for the courage staff and policy that he has shown today today .
if I have asked to take the speak , this is also to the following of the comments followed by the Senator Fraser to a other opportunity and elsewhere .
she has said that the question not fatalities not exclusively the francophones , that she assembly rather a interest national .
in as that Newfoundland - Newfoundlander , I getting part of a group of Canadians newly upon , since we not have fact our entry in the Confederation Canadian that in 1949 .
in as that English unilingues , we have should do the learning of the Canada .
we are still many to not not speak the French .
in fact , some of between we not speak even not the English if well that that .
we talking the language of Shakespeare .
I see the Senator Cochrane who me fact of the remontrances .
I like simply say that on my Island and to the Labrador , we talking a language who has seen the day to the then of Shakespeare , to the 16 century , and who not has not many evolved since .
we not seek not to we justify .
this are the other who have changed the language English , not we .
the status linguistic of Ottawa not is case or of francophones , or of English .
this is a case national .
I am in favour of a capital bilingual , because Ottawa is the capital of the population of the Labrador .
this is the capital of all the Canadians . Et , as such , she should if do the mirrors of the Canada .
this clause is important .
the capital where we conclude and work all , should intellects the uniqueness bilingual of the country and the culture whose we are if proud .
this is why I support this motion , honourable senators .
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , I not better not let move this opportunity without join my Senators to similar of my colleagues of the two sides of the House for support the motion of my old friend the Senator Jean - Robert Gauthier .
the Senator Gauthier has been developed on land for speak in a time similar .
since the many years that I the known , he if is always fact the advocate of the equity in this city , in this province and in all the country .
to a time as extend - side , where we are witnesses of a state of spirit incompr?hensible in the capital of the province , he is very happy that we can rely on a human having the force of uniqueness and the passion of the Senator Gauthier .
he has of new took the head of the forces of the canadianisme , of the equity and of the equality in this file .
he is very true that the situation linguistic of Ottawa is a question of interest national .
he is impossible of if pay in someone part of the Canada that this be without know that some of the pioneers the more inspirants , also far that you blessed you pay to the Western , to the North or to the East , were of the people who there have fact influence the language and the culture French .
we are very proud of these pioneers in Alberta but , as the points my friend the Senator homme man , the people struggle continually for maintain their culture .
more we we ?loignons of the centre , more the fight becomes difficult .
this question step a cast of battle .
I am proud of support my colleague , the Senator Gauthier , on this question .
of the citizens of St. - Paul , of Biche Position Biche , of Morinville and St. Penitentiary followed this who if proceeded to the Parliament on this question , order of know if they are always of the Canadians to share full .
well course that they the are !
Senator Gauthier , I you thank .
to all the honourable senators , I say that this is a great time to the Senate when we can all support a question also fundamental that similar - side for our country .
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , in 1905 , after the birth of his ten - seventeenth child , my great - mother , Sophie Leblanc Martel , has left his small village of fishermen of the Cape - Cape for go if establish to Boston , to the Massachusetts .
when she is arrived there - lower , she has said to his children that they not altering more speak French , that they tarpaper now in a country English and that they altering learn to speak English .
my mother , ten - eighteenth child of the family and the pediatrician , is born two years more later .
she not has never heard my great - mother speak French , except when similar - side r?citait his prayers .
I think that my great - mother would very spend of know that his grandchildren - children , of the least some , are income to the Canada , in a country bilingual .
I think that she would of agreed for that the city of Ottawa , the capital of this country , be bilingual .
you me has learned to thinking that I was Irish , of a side , and American , of the other , until to the day where my mother is arrived to the home with a morceau of vitrail very former , affirms of a fleur of lys .
this morceau of vitrail if find now in my office , in the Block of the East .
after the have nettoy? , my mother the has developed on a support , in the salon .
she has then announced to my father that his children not were not only Irish but that they were also Canadians French .
the hon. Francis William Mahovlich :
honourable senators , in 1972 , when the Senator Rompkey and the Senator Gauthier have been appointed , I was in Russia with a team of hockey who was bilingual .
we have won a very big success , and 1972 has been a very good year .
I wanted only attention that I am of agreed with this that the Senator Rompkey has said .
the hon. Fernand Robichaud :
honourable senators , I like mean my support to this motion of the Senator Gauthier .
I thought that you tiendriez for prior that I ready this motion .
well course that I the getting .
you could often hold for prior - I think that many of people boat for prior - that the capital national if must of be bilingual .
this is often a mistake that we do when we are in situation minority : we granted of the things for learning .
the fact that we news to table a motion for ask that the region of the capital national rev?te this uniqueness bilingual example well that we must always be deliver .
we must encourage the people to meet the two languages official of the country .
this is all to fact without condition and I support sincerely this motion .
the hon. Marie - P .
honourable senators , we seeing today today what place the Senate nat in our country .
as the twice if well several of our colleagues , he is all to fact appropriate of closing the year 99 , with pride , on a motion of principle unanimous .
the Senate of the Canada represents all the minorities and all the professions , any the diversity cultural and the hampered of our country .
I have expressed Tuesday last my surprise before the fact that you not wanted not recognize the status bilingual of the capital of the Canada .
few days more later , to the service of the country , in as that legislators representatives the Canadians , we have could we rallier and merged of a even Senators , of a even heart and of a even pride .
all the teams who we support deserve our congratulations .
the hon. Louis J . Robichaud :
honourable senators , many I have been Whip , almost insulted , when the government of the Ontario has determined that the capital national not would can - be not bilingual , many I me r?jouissais all to the hour of hear the comments of my colleagues of Senate who have been offended because that you refuses of declare officially bilingual the new city of Ottawa .
the Senator Frank Mahovlich has said all to the hour that in 1972 , a event of importance if is product to the country and to Moscow ; I there was also .
the Canadians have then shown their supremacy in a field who their is sir , the hockey .
a other field also we is sir , the bilingualism .
we item so stop the struggles home we .
we item so not not have to struggle for that the bilingualism be officially recognized .
I not had not the intention of say what that this be .
I was absolutely course that the motion of the Senator Jean - Robert Gauthier , would agreed to the unanimously .
as you the has said , I am the a of the last in this millennium to me express .
I support very clear the bilingualism .
the hon. Aur?lien Gill :
his Hon. the Speaker :
if no other Senator not wishes take the speak , I will proceed .
you pleasure - he of adopt the motion , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Kinsella :
I request the consent of the honourable senators for that the account - realized evidence that the motion has been agreed to the unanimously .
his Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the v9ux of No
the hon. Mabel A . DeWare :
to the behalf of the Opposition official , I you thank , Your Hon. , therefore that the table to the Board and the pages for the support that you we have brought in this wonderful institution where we work .
I wish to Your Hon. and to the honourable senators of move of joyeuses celebrations and I you offer our best v9ux to the opportunity of the new millennium .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I me join to my colleague of in opposite for you add to all of joyeuses celebrations and you offer my best v9ux for the XXle century .
I thank all and each for their cooperation , the support and the good services that they have Regional to our country to the within of this institution .
adjournment
leave having been granted of return to the notice of motion of the government :
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the notwithstanding 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate if adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until to the Tuesday 8 February 2000 , to 14 p.m. .
his Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - she granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
his Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , before of put the motion to the Senators , I wish me also to thank all the honourable senators and all the staff , of fact all the employees of the Senate , for their excellent support .
I wish to all a very Joyeux No and a very Bonne Year .
we conclude a day historic , the last sitting of the year 99 , the last sitting of this millennium .
I offer to all my best v9ux for the new year .
I regret that the Justice in Leader gave of the departure , because we have sat a little more long that expected , but I hope you passed all in my chambers .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate if adjourned to the Tuesday 8 February 2000 , to 14 p.m. . )
