debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 1
the traditional 12 October 1998
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the dumping
thirty - sixth Parliament Ouverture the Canadian second session
keep the the Secretary of the Gouverneure general
the Senate . the Senate
again ,
introduction
second session
jean the the Throne
bill to the inclusion the Railway the Railway
first Reading
the speech , the Throne
the " the next sitting
the committee , usefulness
appointment
the Senate
the traditional 12 October 1998
thirty - sixth Parliament Ouverture the Canadian second session
the Parliament , the Food by proclamation to the shipment of the business of today ,
the Chair . Chair . 11 at 1:30 , the Speaker , the the Chair .
prayers .
keep the the Secretary of the Gouverneure general
the Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that he has received the the Secretary of the Gouverneure general the communication next :
the 8 October 1998
Mr. the Speaker ,
the Secretary of the Gouverneure general ,
the Honourable
the Speaker of the Senate
the Senate . the Senate
the Honourable Marcel Prud ' s
honourable senators , I wish to the the not there has not the interpretation translation the morning .
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , the motion right .
there has the way of pallier the lack , because each of the stakeholders will then use of two languages official ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , unfortunately , the not . not possible the the the this afternoon , afternoon , we have the speech , the Throne and that the fauteuils not have not munis the ?couteurs or the transmetteurs .
we can certainly apply to all of the in the two languages official .
the senator Nolin :
i am prepared to the make .
again ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I have the honour to inform the Senate that the Clerk has received the the registraire General of the Canada . certificate signifying that J . Bernard Boudreau , P , the summer called the the Senate .
introduction
the Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that a senator expected to the door to be introduced .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau , the Halifax ( Nova Scotia Nova ) presented by the Honourable B . Alasdair Grahamc.p. , and the Honourable John B . Stewart .
the Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that the Honourable Senator away . the and signed the statement of qualification subscribed by the Act constitutional the 1867 , in attendance of the Clerk of the Senate , Commissioner responsible for concurrence and the subscribed this statement .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . p.m. at 1:30 . )
second session
the Chair . Chair . p.m. at 1:30 , the Speaker , the the Chair .
the Hon. the Speaker :
as we do we do the make , honourable senators , you pleasure , he is the Senate . adjourned . pleasure , sound the arrival of His Excellency the Gouverneure general ?
( the Senate . adjourned . pleasure . )
jean the the Throne
the 14 at Corinne , His Excellency the Gouverneure general so in the room of the Senate and the place on the Throne .
he tells the Governor General of command that the Commons be revitalizing and , the House of the House of 1993 , he tells the Governor General of opening the second session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament , the speech following :
honourable senators , s?natrices ,
/ and Messieurs the House ,
/ and Messieurs ,
i have the honour today , the opening this second session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament of the Canada .
i am , the fact come to the sacrifice that you are so many of the Act , plans , and professional , mixture the challenges the potential a lightening public .
i share the commitment that you have made and I am delighted to the perspective of work with you , the five years in the the service of the people Canadian .
the representatives of the people Canadian . gathered today , for opening the session of the Parliament , annuity the country to the new millennium .
the the floor of a new century , we have done in the future . march the Canada , our children and the our grandchildren - child .
the technology duty all the issues of our life .
the knowledge and the creative are now , drives the Canadian new economy .
the Canadian with vacating the essential to the the the challenges made to our society pluraliste earn the complexity .
however , in the world . inappropriate , the Canadian and the health found the success , as they the people , the first , the long - the history of our country .
the promise that expression the Canada is her to a time when the country were trained the the peaceful the the Oklahoma or the the r?volutions .
the 1800 the country nation . chosen a way , is absolutely the manner Canadian : they have created a country deep the Canadian peace , the the Order and the the good government to all its citizens .
he will collect . the vision and the political to resale the moule the the state of jurisdiction based on a language , a crop or a free single .
this vision and the political and the widely r?compens?es .
the the country , the Canada , in the the small part of industrialis?e , not jouait no role which he was personally in the business numerous .
the the years of the generations , the Canadian and the health . We the jobs a future better to their families and their communities .
the Canadian and their governments have coolness the obstacles created by the shortline and the rigueurs the one climate northern ; they have built a measure of strings national and a system of December , and created a service extend , the the institutions cultural Finance , the the hospital , the the universities and the other institutions .
they have the addition created a system of security social modern .
all these accomplishments are the bedrock of our education . life .
in the space the few generations , we are paying a nation independent , augmented the one based industrial avanc?e , the the Hon. the the chapter in the representations international - and Agricultural Human , the G8 , the Organization of cooperation and the development economic , the NATO , and many of the .
when the tyranny mena?ait the peace and the safety in the world , the Canadian . the ever hesitate to respond to the call .
with our boldest former Veterans , we are merged the most and those who have paid to their lives , the the Senate on the cr?te the Vimy , the Juno Beach , or the lacolline 355 , in Korea .
heirs of the Prairie the the coureurs the the lumber , we have explor? the boundaries of the science .
the the mechanization of the paper The the Canadian Airborne the langages computer arguments , the ingenuity the the Canadian . contributed to strong " era of the information .
the part of the newly the the IGF and the the Prime stimulateur heart , the Canadian . the " the the $ the people to adjourn the world . live better than long .
the Canada has been a pioneer the the use peaceful the the space ; it is much a leader in the area of the communication by spoke and the one of the t?l?d?tection .
today , the our astronautes used the technology Canadian to help to assembler the publisher spatiale international , the most of the scientific the the history .
in a world . the complex , the the approaches , the the skills and the the ideas various are essential to improve the quality of life .
the Canada is a country bilingual the Canadian and men and the the women of a great many of crops , the races and the religions different involved in the life economic , " and political .
they puisent in their livelihood the strength and the creative the foreign to incrementality a country modern , turned toward the future .
our actions and our history of the us we sentons the the comfortable in a world Women by the change and a belief , growing .
the talents of our citizens , the values concerning we are attachment and our political the work together will the the Canada . maintain the role of the plan in the economy . the knowledge .
today , the the Canadian and the health can the enorgueillir the the success of their country .
our economy . dynamic , our society . strong and democratic and our fellow are solidaires the umbrella of the other .
we are refugee in the world world to our education . life .
we b?tirons a better quality of life to the whole of the Canadian and the the health - our children , we , the and our fellow .
a CANADA FORT banking UNI
a good as the life to the Canadian and the health . indissociable the one of the and united .
the government stand a approach overall to strengthen the unity of our country .
all its actions purposes the raffermir the Canada . rehaussant the quality of life of the Canadian .
our system federal we now , appreciate the the fair value . the fact , which the bins the the regions of our country .
he redistribute the rights and the liberties of all the citizens .
he r?partit the repository of all the Canadian , the the people living , the Newfoundland - Newfoundland , in the East , the Canadian British - British , in the West , in passing by our new territory , the Nunavut , in the North .
the the years of the two years Parliaments , the Canadian . looked the basis of a great , the great .
our artists , our writers , our musiciens and our filmmakers are the professionalism the the world world .
the the Canada , the same operation of the one looks of peace , the democracy and the motto human the the worth the respect to the community of the First .
the the the future bode the the Canada . mission to all the citizens , he is meaningful our efforts to build the best of the life that the all the Canadian and Canadians .
some think that he would engender the the in the individual the Hon. side , rather than the work together .
the so , Quebecers . " no one third referendum , the government . the Quebec continue to speak to the meeting of the .
the government . the Canada reaffirmed . the commitment that he has made towards the utmost and all the other Canadians , the knowledge that the principle of lacked set the Canadian Court Supreme the the Canada will therefore ,
the that , a way down , the the strategies Finance and the the partnership to the international the the country . world . Concludes .
the citizens and the governments are working together to build a Canada , the very and the united , a Canada , none of the to the world world .
the Canadian . expect to the the their government national focuses his efforts in the areas where he can and the be a officer of change .
they want to the the report , the manner Canadian , the motion ? " - that the working together , in borders the government individuelle and the action government , and the Chair . the pain of the citizens .
the Canadian and the health expect the their government that he continues to do the Canadian route financial , the the r?duise the burden of the debt , the the credit their taxes and that he calls in politics of the political to the the transition of a society strong .
the new markets global that the immense opportunities of creating the the jobs for the Canadian and the health , the liberalization the growth economic the the country and the increase the impact of the Canada in the world .
the latest our education . life , he we must be strategy overall to the relocation the spark the the economy . the knowledge , and the use our interests and our priorities in the world .
the , we reach the movie the the awards .
we need work with our partners in the areas following the "
the Canadian , the the francophone the our children and the our young , the will we leaders to the 21 century ;
the Canadian youths a global dynamic ;
the Canadian improve the health and the quality of the care for the Canadian ;
the Canadian government , as the country environment ;
the Canadian build the the communities . strong ;
the Canadian initiatives the relationship with the Aboriginal Peoples the the Canada ; and
the Canadian expand the role of the Canada in the world .
the ENFANTS banking LES JEUNES :
our LEADERS Tabled XXIE SI?CLE
our children
the case of the evolution of the economy World , for retirement of a quality of life high , all the country will be more than ever the one people adaptable , determined and sharing the objective the learning , the the life .
this is the Canadian unkind boyhood that the types qualities the kinds .
no commitment that we take this day . will therefore , a to the Whelans and the well - be the long term of the corporation Canadian that the Canadian invest our efforts in favour of the very young children .
this are the parents and the families who have the responsibility first , to withdraw the people children .
the corporation , full must however 9uvrer the police to the our children diversifying the skills necessary to their success .
the government will the the government , allow the the parents of profit the cong?s the testimony to the deal of their children , in extending the application of the benefits of the - job to the CHST the the cong?s parentaux and the the Cuban the availability .
he will the intermediaries to the families , enclosing political , as the employer and those of the employers subject to the regulatory federal .
the " the other relief tax , he will the the families with children of the most of money .
with his partners provincial and territorial , he is emploiera the reform the right to the family and the strengthening the plans of support the the families to the , in the the situations the separation or the outcome , priority the product to the needs and the the best interests of the children .
the government , and the the governments provincial and territorial are the end to the point of the Program of action national to the children .
in the part of this approach , our objective is the letter of this December 2000 . a wide of the governments , responded the one of the action national to help to the the parents and the families .
this plan bonds the Entente - the Act , name " .
he state of the principles , the the objectives and the the parameters financial approaches to all the governments to the increase the resources and the raffermir , the the government . support the the development of the young children .
the help the families , out of the undergraduate the Canadian poverty , the governments federal , provincial and territorial the so established the Prestation national to children .
the government . the Canada is already in the Canadian invest a $ 5 Supplementary the Caregiver billion . $ the the intent of the families , low income with children and the their share , the provinces and the territories invest in the the services supplementary .
the government . " that no family . the voluntary the choosing of a job and the benefits to his children .
the this end , he simultaneously a third Investment important in the Prestation national to children of this 2002 , the in the effor?ant the information a commitment to his partners provincial and territorial to the people perpetrator their investment in favour of the services to the families with children .
our young
our young are the leaders of tomorrow .
they are already followed the the comfortable in the world . branch? the .
they have the energy , the ideas , the knowledge - to technologique , and they want to the governance their country . the 21 century .
in a world . branch? the , the the solitude not exist , the the young Canadians diversifying the early in their lives of knowledge and the skills the people have the .
the government . emploiera the quality of our young the most significant opportunities of the " the experience Canadian , the truth the splendeurs the their country , the the familiariser directly with each region , and the the lurch expulsion by the the people will know , their fellow across the the country .
the that , the government will various the "
the the will call the the skills of the young Canadians to the relier the communities rural and urban the the response to the information , in the hiring to locate the the sites additional the access public , regarding the
the the cr?era a grain the service single - trade Canada - to the giving each year , I , per $ young Canadians , in classical the one another area of the country ;
the the the ultimate that the young Canadians and Canadians , 13 years and the will the opportunity to the " francophones their capacities and the jobs their first 9uvres the Whole the the approaches traditional and the the technical new in the areas of the Council , the Canadian Industrial , the Canadian Technology hamstrung and the other industries ;
the the incitera the the tens of thousands of young Canadians volunteers to participate in the the bills environmental the the levels community and national and the help the other people to improve their living of literacy ;
the the will the the young Canadians , using them energy and their talents addition , overseas in recalling the Canadian and programs international the Pages and the progressive the country . " the development , the plug on Internet .
the most , the government continue to give the priority to the premature the the information to the young Canadians , the subject , the opportunities of liquidity the the experience of the and the potential of learning .
a Economy DYNAMIQUE POUR LE XXIE SI?CLE
in the economy World of the knowledge , the advantage will the the country , are commensurate , the people of the levels of productivity high , the territories to the People the most recent , the employer in the skills of the skills of their citizens and the movie the the new markets in the world world .
the Canadian . built a global strong and dynamic .
this is the capstone cornerstone of our education . life : it allows the the Canada . continue to strong a society . fair , the latest the health of the people and the strengthening the communities .
in the space the few years , the the Finance . the state . fellow the the deficits and the the burden the Canadian and Administration consecutive with the low rate of inflation and the public .
the the modernis? the legislation and the regulations and the the cut the role of the government in the decisions the business .
the government continue to create a workshop the goals to the growth economic and the the improvement of the productivity , in reducing the burden of the debt , in abaissant the tax and the advent of the investment strategic .
these projects undoubtedly the small businesses the Consolidated , encourageront the trade , Croatia the citizens . parfaire the legal the people have the and viability that the Canada , launched the one infrastructure modern .
the government is resolved the objective of political the management financial prudent .
the ever the not allow the the " perde the control of the Finance . the state .
he will the so that the debt falling throughout the report , the product within gross .
he bonds the commitment to the the beginning of this Parliament of palliative the half of the surplus budget , the Income the Canadian debt and the the break the the tax , and the other half the the investment regarding the answer to the needs social and economic the the Canadian .
the reduction of the tax . a vital importance of a strategy to the increase the income of the particular and the building a global garante the Canadian growth and the Canadian exports , allow the investment public and private to the preserve a quality of life high .
in the next budget , the government will a plan pluriannuel the cuts additional the the tax .
increasing the the trade trade and the the investment
the all the great country industrialized , the motion of Canada , the the economy , the Chair of the world .
we have the opportunity to be a country which the people . opposed to people who come to wherever in the world .
the market foreign solutions the new opportunities for our goods and our service .
the investment foreign we rise to the capital , the the ideas and the the People new and the the practical trade innovative .
the benefit of the advantage of the Canada , the government intensifies the efforts of Canada . the trade in the areas strategic offering the the potential of Tax high - the the areas transmission of the biotechnologie and the the People the the Environment and the the information , the the export , the Canadian Industrial and the Canadian health .
he continue to the support the innovation and the development of new reproductive in the major areas of Tax such as the Agriculture , the agroalimentaire and the resources natural .
he put on ethnic the team Canada Investissement , the will the all the governments and the the area private the coordinator their efforts to educate more the community international the the potential exceptional the investment and the growth to the Canada .
the government winners the part legislative present to facilitate the initial the the blind social the the business multinational the the Canada .
the most , the government suddenly with his partners . the hemisphere to the establishing of this 2005 the Zone the free - free of the Americas .
within and the necessary to the 21 century
a public active qualifi?e and the ability to innover continually are the pierres the old the the success of our economy , the 21 century .
the the years of the three years in the the government has established a strategy administered the operating the advantage that is to the Canada . labour - " distinct the motion of the educated to the world .
he has facility the savings , education for the children .
he will the students coll?giales and university . affordable through the the scholarships the students Canadian of the millennium .
he has all?g? the provision of Tax the the burden ?tudiantes and improved the government tax provisions the the funding of the learning continuous .
we continue to us support the this strategy .
the government ' outdated the the partnership with the other provincial , the organizations public and private , the with the Canadian and the health , to the establishing a plan of action national , the Canadian expertise and the learning to the 21 century .
this plan put the focus on the learning continuous , the tone the the problem of the low literacy the the chronic and provide the the citizens of information , they have the to take the the decisions pressed the view of parfaire their expertise .
the the years of the two years in the the government suddenly with his partners to the "
the WTO the the Canadian of finance the nervousness the learning continuous ; and
the specific the the information to the international the the Canada , the market . the work , the skills necessary and the potential of training to the Canadian a grain single , accessible by Internet , by telephone , or in one in all the communities . the country .
the government put the the focus on the army , the peace , the and the learning Standing the Canadian public service of the Canada , to the it remains strong , workable , professional , but partisan and forcefully the specific the the Canadian and the the health and services of the most horrific quality of the or?e the the 21 century .
the infrastructure of the 21 century
the result that goal , he will create the new types of infrastructure .
the infrastructure of the knowledge
the latest the infrastructure of the knowledge , the Canada is supporting a new generation of leadership , bring the researchers the most worthy and encourage the graduates to exercise their talents here , the country .
the government will a bill to the duration the creation of the instituts Canadian of research , health .
those of the ouvriront the seaway , the the Senate . counting global the the Canada , because they will the Canadian first time . the researchers the the area of the health , in the purpose of Upper the the priorities Commons to the research .
this approach innovatrice does the importance of the collaboration in the area of the research to improve the health and the well - be the the Canadian , and strong a system of care of health of the great Polish .
the government . the Canada is for the many years , a the the major soutiens the Canadian research in the universities Canadian .
since both years , the government feels a proper program to the best support the research , technology to the Canada .
the the make , he :
the productivity the support the the advice granting , and allowing the establishing of new arrangements with the universities to the attention of his researchers the the world in the part of a program breaking , the chaires the awards , Research the the 21 century ;
the encouragera the universities and the instituts the research , the Canada , using the collaboration international the federal - rescue and the increase the knowledge - to Canadian in the the areas as the g?nomique , the changes Ni and the art carried ; and
the facilitera the commercialization of the new products and services of the the point of the Canadian and the Canadian research in the universities and the locations the research offices .
the government responded , the the the the fact , capability modern and effective in the Canadian research and the Science and the public . the board public , for advocating the health , the safety and the well - be economic the the Canadian .
the infrastructure of the information
the support the flow of the ideas and the trade trade in the the facilities computer , for plug the Canadian , the response to the information and accelerating the comptrollership the the trade Ministerial , the Canada will improve the infrastructure of the information .
the this end , the government :
the will the the government to do the the Canada . centre of excellence in trade Ministerial and encourage the use in the whole of the economy ;
the product to get a bill to the motion to protect the information personal and commercial in the facilities electronic and the goodies the signatures electronic ; and
the government live a user model of the People the the information and the Internet .
we are doing the one bill pilot the years , to the the site www . acces . ca
the economy . the knowledge . is not the simple happened to the business of high technology .
this is a global in the all the areas and all the export the coast to use of any and the disclosure of technology .
in the , this economy within the giving more of stability , the granting the the market . the the regions , rural , the the the export criterion the the resources , Agriculture , fisheries , foresterie , mines , tourism - are the suggestions major the Canadian exports .
the government encouragera the implementation of the point and the adoption of new reproductive in all the areas .
the infrastructure cultural
the strength of the Canada is root in his tireless diversity .
writers , lyricist , artists , filmmakers and artists face life , our culture , the Canadian and consignent our history and guarding our heritage cultural .
he put in line of collections the the Archives Finance , the Canadian Library national and the other institutions key .
the infrastructure mat?rielle
the Canada will the addition continue to improve the infrastructure mat?rielle the the 21 century .
the Canadian nationally the trade and the liberalization the growth economic , we must be to the us we , capability of freight the people and the foreign the way Motor and effective .
the preserve the quality of life in our city and our communities rural , we must preserve the puret? the the air and the the water .
the government suddenly the police with the other levels of the and the area private to sell - the chamber , the Canadian the year 2000 - the one of Devco to the latest the infrastructure mat?rielles in the coastal urban and the the regions rural the the country .
the health banking LES SOINS Tabled QUALIT? POUR LES CANADIENS
the health and the the care of quality are essential to the well - be the all the Canadian and Canadians ; they are the one of our great atouts in the context of the Canadian globalization of the market .
the progress made in the areas of the technology , the Canadian research and the the information we jury the new outlook representing the latest the health and the well - be the the citizens .
the Canadian . expect to the the people governments work of slaughterhouse to ensure that the system of health of the Canada remains modern and viable .
the government has recently confirmed the commitment to the respect to the system of care of health , readily 11,5 billion . $ the most of the basis , the Canadian the 21 century .
he continue to go to the prior with his partners provincial and territorial and the area of the health to do preliminary the priorities Commons .
with his partners , the government reserve the implementation of the advisory the innovations the federal - benefit int?gr?e the the services , including the Canadian and lepers such the care , older and the assurance - 1980 , in the purpose of the one system of health , all the components fonctionneront the way harmonieuse .
a system modern the information on the health will the the professional the Canadian health and the the citizens of access to the information to the " on the the issues of the time and the the treatment existing .
the government responded to the the the citizens of all the regions of the country do access to this information to the people smoke . the decisions better pressed .
the government plan the health of the Canadian , renfor?ant the program of specifications the the foods , in exercising the the government gave to deal of problems of health benefits to the Environment , there included the risk sanitaires potential that risk of pesticides , and the modernisant the protection of the health , the in a world . developments .
we continue to see the study of serious problems of health in the communities aboriginal and we speaking of the Canadian . years to the use their , the be the " strengthen the benefit of the services of health .
the QUALIT? Tabled NOTRE ENVIRONNEMENT
the well - be the long term of each Canadian and belief the the plan social and economic future of the state of the Environment natural .
our ability to adopt the the practical and the the People environmental innovative become the most of the one another asset the size to the Canada , the 21 century .
the Canadian recognize been mothballed the links the profiles of a workshop widest and their quality of life .
the the citizens Canadian and the the business copies the coast . , the the public . their own communities , the protection of community natural the repoussant the limits of the People environmental , in extending the prospects linking by the - the and the exploitant the new practices Environmental .
the quality of the Environment in our communities . , related to the state of the Environment the the other communities . the world .
only a response concerted the the international World will the problem . problems as the changes Ni and the dangers associated the Canadian presence in the Environment the sites sites r?manentes .
the the Canada , the government suddenly with the other levels of the and with the citizens to meet the commitment that the way our country , in order to the Kyoto the Kyoto , the deficit the television the scourge the effect of Greenhouse .
the government d?finira and apply to the standards antipollution toughest , in particular , as protection of health of the children , the the people seniors and the the people of the North .
he put the most of talk the the development sustainable in the part of the process of the .
he is rural , the the weaknesses structurelles d?cel?es in the system of the Canadian and chemicals sites .
the Canadian scene international , the Canada provide a support technical to help the country . R the feasibility of the practical ports .
the government carrying the the bills of the and the the program of the , collaborant with the provinces and the territories to ensure the the the the cash species and the habitat the provinces have the members protected .
the government continue to the face the system of parks national the the Canada .
in his own operations , the government . address as model of excellence environmental .
he Glenney more to d?polluer the sites federal contaminated .
he aquatic his capacity scientific the research in the area of the Environment .
he councilors also the new reproductive the latest .
the government will the the reports silent the the results achieved to respond to the great concern environmental the the Canadian and the the health .
municipal COLLECTIVIT?S PLUS FORTES
working together
the first time , the Canadian . Devco the coalesce to the benefit of the opportunities the the tens the one and the challenges the challenges .
this commitment to work together , the by the Canadian , their governments and their communities , will allow the the Canada . continue to succeed the " and issues complex the the 21 century .
it commitment to the governments to eliminate the obstacles which entravent the way , justified the student of the citizens . the trade , the Canada .
these obstacles incluent the rules , which the matters credentials not have not appear when a citizen the installe in a place in the the Canadian and students . the use their loans when they examining the the foreign the their province , and that the the services essential are sometimes tracking the some individuals - there included those who have the the handicaps - in the Canadian and in the country .
the government . the Canada is resolved the work with his partners to meet the deadlines determined in the Entente - the Act , name " , in order prompted all the obstacles injustifi?s the Canadian mobility will eliminate the the most later , 2002 .
in 2001 , the Canadian and the health souligneront the livelihood international the the volunteers , in artist the achievements of these heroes the country life daily .
the government does the the important to establish the the partnership with the communities and the needed to relationship with the organizations volunteers the the help and the Ports .
he conclura a wide national with the area voluntary , sleeping , the basis new the one partnership dynamic with the the organizations , are the the service of the Canadian and the the health .
the be strong , the communities be able , the Canadian full participation of all their membership .
the government continue to his efforts to the the other provincial , the the area private , the the organizations volunteers and the all the citizens to build the the communities , the public prompted will fully included the Canadian , the the handicaps , and the the new Canadians . jaded the one .
in addition , the government continue to work of slaughterhouse with his partners in all the areas to the deal to the causes deep the the country . the situation . the fault - free and the help the communities , will the the needs of their membership , and other , the Canadian housing .
promoting the the communities . seemingly
the Canadian . " fair as proud of the fund . the communities where the citizens . feel the safety .
he is a the one part key to the quality of life and the one thing , contributes to the advantage competitive the the Canada .
the government collaborera with the Canadian to the our communities remain seemingly .
he suddenly the manner balanced , in combinant the one of a approach adopted on the prevention and the action community and , the other hand , the the government act to fight the youth serious .
he ?largira the strategy community of passing of the spot , and appear to get a bill to the to reform the system of justice for the young .
the government luttera , the traffic the the stup?fiants . in helping the communities , attending the victims .
he lancera a program of justice restorative the help the victims of the back to their traumatismes and will the the Cold not violent the opportunity to help to stimulate the torts that they have occur .
the government . councilors the counter the new threat the planent the the Canadian and the people neighbours in the world .
he continue his fight against the youth , the the practice of the in the " the international World , the the eye the money , the Public and the facilities criminals the Immigration ill?gale , the contraband the the stup?fiants and the the weapons .
the government aquatic the average the existing the RCMP and the other organizations to fight against the threat to the safety public , the Canada and credible with the organizations knowledgeable the other countries .
he " in addition , and the best to the safety public .
the most , the government . the Canada continue to work closely with the government . the United - United to modernize our civilization common in the Canadian the 21 century .
strengthening LES RELATIONS AVEC LES PEUPLES AUTOCHTONES business CANADA
the contribution of the Aboriginal Peoples the the Canada has model? our heritage and continue to enrich our country . the years of the next century .
the government continue to the support the Canadian strong basic the reconciliation and the renewal fiduciary in Strength our forces : the plan of action . the Canada for the issues aboriginal .
we ?difions now , the partnership the base with the aboriginal , in concentrant our efforts on the improvement of their medical the life and , the most of the , the the strengthening of their economies .
the Aboriginal Peoples will therefore , the Canadian to the Canadian public . closely the the development economic the the Canada and the the well - be the Canadian society .
the fact , promoting the principle of a government and the profession in the communities . the First Nations increase the confidence the the investors , independent of partnership economic and suggests the conditions of life .
the agreements of settlement of the land claims , in particular , are the the evidence essential to engender the certainty the the aboriginal and the communities nearby the need ; they discussed a climate beautiful the the partnership , the the investment and the Canadian growth economic .
the the beginning of the new session of the Parliament , the government will a bill to the Republic of inclusion the agreement historic with the Nisga' the .
the PLACE business CANADA DANS LE MONDE
the the direction of the 21 century , the Canada is the tasking to show the seaway , Mexico the one , the course .
the Canadian . today , the best of the life , the world for the people . the ambulance the the needs of the individuals .
we poss?dons the experience adapt to the Canadian the prior a program improved to the safety human in the purpose of protecting the effect civilian , the threat the planent the people rights , and Safety and their lives .
the Canadian scene international , we have the calumny the changes to contribute single , the the Senate by the country contribution to the Elimination of the mines mines , the the efforts of the NATO and the the United Human the the Kosovo , the the assistance to the development in Asia and the Africa , the Canadian Airborne the the Tribunal p?nal international or the the renewal of the system fiscal international .
the Canadian and the health recognize that their quality of life is the part rural the same the people neighbours , who , the people feel the planet .
a world where the people are in security is a world where the Canadian people have the fuir their home , the the , the least , conducted and the Public , and the the , the least , Standards associated the Canadian medical and the Canadian pollution .
the government goes a vital increased to the safety human in his political foreign and the 9uvrera to the the representations numerous green the the progress enemies in the part of a phase international to the safety human .
the Assembly general , the United Human incorporated in 2001 a session extraordinary to the the children .
in the spirit of the partnership the the appropriateness the the treaty historic the removal of the mines mines , the government suddenly , the Canadian to the the agreements international key to protect the rights of the children .
the Canada . will the headline of the efforts to the GST the seaway the the children , including the the the concerns . use as soldiers in the mother armed , and help to do with the the tragedy of the children victims of the progressive and the the AIDS .
the government Glenney , being of slaughterhouse with the the country partageant the same inception to reform and strengthen the the institutions multilateral as the United Human , the fund monetary international , the Bank World and the Organization World of the trade .
he is taxable , the definition of new approach international to support the diversity cultural in the world .
the course , leadership of the Canada in the menu , the government esquissera a political foreign to the North to the latest the cooperation , protect the Environment , fostering the trade and the investment and support the safety of the people of the region .
the government foster the assistance international the the development and changed the way art to help the country poor the latest the quality of life of their citizens .
the government continue to the resulting the the the the Canadian Forces be in the Canadian support the role of the Canada for help to the safety in the world and the the efforcera the increase the ability to the Canadian and the the health of help to ensure the peace and the safety in the the country abroad .
obligations Tabled PROMESSE business CANADA POUR LE XXIE SI?CLE
the the time , celebrating the Year of the new millennium , we can look our past with pride and consider the future . trust .
the the victims of the generations the us . predecessors , we will deal to the new challenges .
but through the our priorities and the country experience collective , we can do the so that the Canada , the best country . the world to his people - the place ideal to eat the the children , learned , operating the potential , the guys the Canadian and communities off , railway and assured and admired the beauty of the nature .
all the Canadian - each citizen , each government , each company and every body community , the one part of dabbling to ensure the future of the Canada .
we b?tirons the 21 century the .
/ and Messieurs the House ,
you intend called the vote , 33 to the fund the services and the Estimates approved by the Parliament .
honourable senators , s?natrices ,
/ and Messieurs the House ,
in the the representatives of the people of the one coast to the other , you have a duty Special , a responsibility . the Canadian continue to award the the service of your country .
he is that the Canadian and the health of tomorrow so that , in considering the present Parliament , the the the native of men and the women profoundly the building a Canada . , and a better quality of life to their children and their small - child .
that the Divine providence you guide in your deliberations .
the House of the House of cases .
he tells the Governor General of Gouverneure general , the simplest .
the Senate resumed his Attendance .
bill to the inclusion the Railway the Railway
first Reading
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . the the bill to the S - 1 , the inclusion the Railway the Railway .
( the bill to the motion read a first time . )
the speech , the Throne
the " the next sitting
the Hon. the Speaker :
the the Hon. the
one another
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when the speech will be implemented , the study ?
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . the "
that the speech , the Throne that His Excellency the Gouverneure general , rendered today , the the two Houses of the Parliament , the " the study the Canadian next sitting of the Senate .
( the motion is agreed . )
the committee , usefulness
appointment
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . the "
that , pursuant to the rule 85 ( 1 ) the the Rules , the honourable Atkins , Jack , DeWare , Fairbairn , Grafstein , Kinsella , Kirby , Manitoba and Murray alone a committee , usefulness responsible for lacking the motion of Senator the discharge the Chair . " the Speaker pro tempore ; and b ) the honourable the will the Canadian and various committee particular , the present session .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Honourable Marcel Prud ' s
the .
( the motion is agreed with argument . )
( the Senate . adjourned . p.m. at tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 2
the 1998 13 October 1998
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the dumping
the Gouverneure general
printing the Journals of the programme prononc?es the Canadian the initial
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau , P
tributes to the opportunity to his appointment to the Senate
Maxwell Tabled '
the week , abuse of the streets
the Senate
congratulations to the staff to the good work of preparation of the initial the Canadian Gouverneure general and the Canadian reading of the speech , the Throne
the Agriculture
the hemp cultivation - Effect obstacles to the export to the United - United
the Canadian privilege
visitors in Gallery
business routine
the committee , usefulness
introduction of the Prime report
introduction of the second report
bill to the chronic the decision of some decisions medical
first Reading
transport and Communications
notice of Motion to Committee on the committee , the application the in order to the Act , the Transportation the the Canada for herd the meeting of discussions on the proposal of buying the response Canada , the area private
business foreign
notice of Motion to Authorize the the committee , to the amendment brought to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty the the Atlantic North
the Summit of the Francophonie
notice of inquiry
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape
the possibility of the to help the relatively the Whole the conditions of eligibility the the Program of praise to the retirement 7.7 - Government Position of the government
the Environment
the Nova Scotia Nova Scotia - fault of the contaminated the the sites of pollutants sites
the Defence down
the Transportation
the principles of the payment by the sign , the Canadian prevention of the pollution and the the Elimination crushing the the events chemical toxins - Government Position of the government
the Agriculture
the effectiveness of the program to the help the farmers
business foreign
notice of Motion to the cultivation the committee to study of affected the the Union monetary European
on business orders
the speech , the Throne
motion of the Canadian the Adresse the answer to Ajournementdu debate
the adjournment
the Canadian privilege
the Canadian the Speaker
referred to the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules
the Canadian the Speaker
referred to the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules
the Senate
the 1998 13 October 1998
the Chair . Chair . p.m. at the the Speaker , the the Chair .
prayers .
printing the Journals of the programme prononc?es the Canadian the initial
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I move :
that the speech , the Prime Minister of the Canada , the very hon. Jean Chr , P , prohibiting the Canadian the initial the Canadian . ) Adrienne Clarkson as Gouverneure general , the Canada . 7 October 1998 , and the answer to His Excellency the Gouverneure general , this speech that votes in Printed the the Journals of the Senate . the Order and they are part of the scholars the this chamber .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the text of the programme found to the Journals , appendix
clause )
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau , P
tributes to the opportunity to his appointment to the Senate
the Honourable B . Alasdair Graham :
honourable senators , the clearing June 1997 , I have been asserment? the the Council Office of the Canada . E the Leader of the government to the Senate .
i have said that the - that the my objective the was the make the necessary to the I went replaced the Canadian first opportunity .
in the , I have record that the I was a question of only one of the cabinet federal , would the the efforts to leave the Employment .
i do know that many of political , so that targuer the have reached their purpose and work they task , half of the time that he not in the .
the senator Boudreau is not only a friend , the long date , the motion also a friend of the family , the many years .
the , when Bernie the motion introduced to the leadership , the leadership of our party in Nova Scotia Nova , the motion of the my husband , was the steering the campaign .
the the years of the two years in the the senator Boudreau and Jack the summer associated the the public . the same practice of lawyers .
honourable senators , I am asking the the would suggest the " that , that the the son the defeat , the father , successful , the way that d?tourn?e , it is it . " , the make palliative the career policy of the senator Boudreau .
however , the senator Boudreau is the " the ability to express the home . the view and the the make concerns .
as the the areas private that public , he has failed gain the respect to many Canadians , the Nova Scotia Nova or the same .
the and the Hon. came to the Assembly legislation . the Nova Scotia Nova , the senator Boudreau the motion d?marqu? in the practice of the right to Sydney and the Halifax .
in quality of Minister of the Finance and , PLAR , the Minister of the health , he has found the need , as the motion of the in the ground of the provinces and the the country , the other . the decisions . difficult .
senator Boudreau , you finirez by the , as the vice my case , the the motion of a guest and a rare privilege of sitting , the public . the cabinet and the matter assume the the issues br?lantes the arguments , the provinces are the Order regional , national or ISH .
all these discussions comma prospective our concern common to the respect to the well - be the Canadian public . our fine - Nova , the rock .
in quality of Minister regional , you embark the challenges of many challenges and , in the context , the in the part of all the other matters that you someday deal as Leader of the government to the Senate , you sell off the my full with the
you find that members in this chamber some of the penseurs the most outstanding and the the parliamentary the most trying to the world .
i have been the same the plight that , in the part of the challenges the people have the challenges , our colleagues sells the Universit the the qualities . specific , the the experience collegial the their such , the the subject Diet and a wonderful Ethics the the work .
the my opinion , they feel the feelings of Commissionaires Blake , a former MP the the said that there has the Canadian a century in a speech gave the Canadian House of the House :
the privileges of the Parliament , the privileges of the people , the rights of the Parliament , the rights of the people .
the Canadian offered the one new century , these words we talk a tradition the us we inherited - a tradition inchang?e the the Order - and a privilege that the little of the us we , had the FTQ .
this is the wonderful privilege of using the people .
this is the work here , we , we to the people of our province , the country of the Canadian our country .
the the years of the signatures - seven years , I have verified the the Senate , all the bills of the the people were selected the people were the need and they have a was the am?lior?s .
all the students who have been undertaken the contribution that is the Special the Canadian and segments of our society .
this is a privilege for us to you have the our worthwhile , and the one time , we would wish to the cordiale the the questionable .
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I am getting , a pleasure , located the the name of the Opposition a new senator , but I , I have the pr?sumant that we will all benefit of the experience and the Canadian training the the new time to the the the the age of the retirement mandatory the strength to the .
the senator Boudreau is the Prime Senator the , before the Canadian . was asserment? , the announcement that the length of the delegation among the not be not more long that is that he remains the the mandate of the government of the
is the " the in a daily .
i wish wish to the senator Boudreau a long and outstanding came here , but the same time , I hope , as many of the , the the time that the government of none of the power will also short , that the
in fact , I am gentlemen the feeling that the few months only , the senator fewer that the work accomplished this is the Okanagan and the odour that the the other place and that he convey the - be well review the decision of the r?trograder when the next election will election .
one of time , hear .
the - time , he agrees a challenge difficult , the the motion become more than the case of the model established by the previous immediate , the the urbanit? and the civility not have been the so implemented , the advisory and confirm?es that the Canadian and the day and the Hon. the Canadian today , the
today , the I am talking the wish to the senator Boudreau the best of the opportunity to his new part , and I , praise the the choice of the Leader Deputy .
the senator Hays reputation of the respect General of the honourable the the two sides of the House and amending the the new part 15 years of participation active in the Senate . the Senate .
Maxwell Tabled '
the week , abuse of the streets
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I rise today , for you wish to the week next , the the 17 , the lines October , the Permanent the Week . violence the Canadian YM .
he is a the one campaign international the the Canadian first was a the Right by the streets the the United - United the 1995 , but who is the opportunity relates to the Canadian 20 , the the the Canada , the Australia , the Dahomey , the Uruguay and the Zimbabwe .
the Prime objective of the campaign is the same the the solutions to all the subject of violence .
the the years of the Week . violence , the streets and the YMCA - YWCAs the all the communities , the Canada , the police with the schools , the forces police , the groups community and the sponsors , organiseront various business depleted to encourage the Canadian , and the the solutions to the violence the reason they are faced daily .
each day , the week . symbol to a theme particular , the " the violence .
the 18 October , friends and children apprendront how to the situations the violence .
the 19 October , the the tighten the the average of the our schools , involved .
the 1998 20 October , the Standing how to the " the violence to the women .
the Thursday 21 October the streets sensibilisera all the Canadian , the impact of the wrath , the the stress and the the abuse in the life of the men and the people relations .
the Friday 22 October , the call the attention of the racism and the crimes aggressive by the haine , and the their link with the violence .
finally , the Saturday 23 October , the transcript how replace the violence by the the activities positive , such as the game , the unpaid and the Council .
honourable senators , I would suggest all the individual , to the " the activities .
the Senate
congratulations to the staff to the good work of preparation of the initial the Canadian Gouverneure general and the Canadian reading of the speech , the Throne
the Honourable Rompkey Rompkey :
honourable senators , the Senate . recently , the scene the two events . important in the life of our country .
i have attended many times the Canadian such events , but they not to the ever d?roul?s , the .
this was the first time that it officiait the one such event and I am the opinion that it is the left the Gallery .
the Hon. through the I wish to the honour to his kindness the , with those of the Senate , the working later in the night to see the all the details and the government that the the liberties of a way , good .
the Agriculture
the hemp cultivation - Effect obstacles to the export to the United - United
the Honourable Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I rise today , the honourable to the attention of the Canadian the Senate on the situation . the are now confront?es a society and a young people Canadian .
Kenex Limited , the Chatham , in Ontario , is the gap the full the one of the most great producers and transformateurs the hemp cultivation .
however , the border the the Customs and the Canadian repression the the Controlled the the United - United the recent the that the calling .
i have made conscience of the problem , the actions , September , several of my contacts in the area of the hemp cultivation , to the " enqu?rir the the crops the this year .
the answer to the I received the Canadian the Canadian Jean biographer , the Canadian Kenex , not the not been the the I originally .
Mr. . biographer I was made a balancing considerable when I have begun to me to the the bill to the Act , hemp cultivation .
he I , then getting clear that the market American found a good reason for the " request the culture the the hemp cultivation the the Canada .
the the the market American to the events of hemp gross and nothing to the important , the United - United the long banned the culture the the hemp cultivation , the so that , for the the years , the market . d?pendu the the worth of the foreign .
recently , several States . adopted . the legislation encouraging the culture the the hemp cultivation - the Hawaii , the Crosby the the North and the Minnesota .
a time that a weighted made a part of the market , he has existed the deficit this advantage price ; it belongs . " and producers Canadian of the and the deficit their share of international before the the Americans . the the approprient .
the market American a realistic per - the figure of business of Kenex .
the one of the obvious , a society , the figure of business . the 2,500 billion . $ by year , using for the the years of the seeds of hemp from the China to his m?langes .
the chargement the seeds to bird that Kenex the sea , August the this society . was probably by the Customs American .
this chargement was informed the documents confirmant his sterilization and the analysis of the seeds .
the seeds to bird are the the " seeds of hemp st?rilis?es the , the not have not a substance r?glement?e , what the Senate . substance , laying .
the seeds of hemp the Kenex are all the fact legal the the most of the bill , the
they natural the Canadian 0,001p. per , or a part of 100 per , the seeds .
the bill , probably to the Library per - THC in the seeds st?rilis?es .
Mr. . biographer the said :
he is impossible to find the the footsteps of 0.3 in our products to the the the laboratory not be ?quip? to do the the tests of attendance of 0.3 to the one of the year , and the that , the not be that the the footsteps of 0.3 in the most of our products .
Cynthia H . Thielen , MP the the state of Hawaii the Canadian House of the representatives , the record made his support the Kenex Limited and the criticized openly the participation of the border American the Canadian repression the the Controlled the Canadian fall of the events of Kenex .
honourable senators , I believe that the the Department of the Foreign Affairs and the the International Covenant the hostile the the matter and I will follow the close the evolution .
i hope that we will very soon . good news to announce the the farmers Canadian .
the Canadian privilege
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , pursuant to the rule 43 ( 7 ) the the Rules and the Senate . the Canada , I give today , the the I soul?verai a question of privilege to the subject of the disclosure not mandated the Ambassador of a report of the committee on the Canadian and aboriginal Peoples .
you noterez that this issue of privilege the summer raised in the last session .
the Canadian decision made by our Speaker , the case was the matter to the committee Standing the the privileges and the the Rules .
i the point of new to the following the Canadian prorogation and I wish to address the the time appropriate .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I point of the Canadian privilege the the policy , the experience wildlife by a witness the the messages the one of our committees standing .
the the time appropriate , later in the day , pursuant 16.1 43 ( 7 ) the the Rules , I traiterai the detail the this matter .
visitors in Gallery
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I draw your attention of the presence in the gallery of a delegation of the Republic popular democratic the Korean .
Mr. . Cha Jong is the Canadian Office the the Institute of the business international , Mr. Li Song Man is administrator the the Institute of the business international , believing Ri Kwang Nam is the Secretary to the mission permanent the Canadian Republic popular democratic the Korean the the United Nations .
the delegation is the host of the Honourable Senator Prud Prud ' s P
the the name of all the honourable senators , I would wish to welcome to the Senate , the
business routine
the committee , usefulness
introduction of the Prime report
the Honourable L?once Jeffrey , the Canadian the Committee of Selection , the the report following :
the 1998 13 October 1998
the Committee of Selection the the honour to present its
first REPORT
under the the article 85 ( 1 ) b ) the the Rules and the Senate , your committee , the list of the honourable that he has designated to do the Canadian the committee , presented :
COMIT? PERMANENT Questions transport banking Questions COMMUNICATIONS
the honourable senators Adams , Bacon , * Boudreau ( or Hays ) , Callbeck , Finestone , Forrestall , regarding the Kirby , LeBreton , * Staunton , Lynch ( or Kinsella ( , Perrault , too , regarding the Spivak .
* member of board
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the ?
the senator Jeffrey :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , I move that the report be adopted as now .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure , he and the Canadian motion , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Jeffrey , the study of the report is placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting of the Senate . )
introduction of the second report
the Honourable L?once Jeffrey , the Canadian the Committee of Selection , the the report following :
the 1998 13 October 1998
the Committee of Selection the the honour to present its
REPORT REPORT
under the the article 85 ( 1 ) b ) the the Rules and the Senate your committee , the list of the honourable that he has designated to do the Canadian the committee , presented :
COMIT? PERMANENT Questions foreign Affairs
the honourable senators Andreychuk , Norman , Bolduc , * Boudreau ( or Hays ) , Carney , Corbin , De Ban , Di Nino , Grafstein , Lewis , Cool - Cool , * Staunton , Lynch ( or Kinsella ( , Stewart and Stollery .
* member of board
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the ?
the senator Jeffrey :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , I move that the report be adopted as now .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure , he and the Canadian motion , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Jeffrey , the study of the report is placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting of the Senate . )
bill to the chronic the decision of some decisions medical
first Reading
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs , the bill to the S - 2 , the chronic the decision of making medical legitimate respect to the treatment of survival and the the treatment of the pain .
( the bill to the motion read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . second time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Carstairs , the second lecturedu bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the mardi26 October 1998 . )
transport and Communications
notice of Motion to Committee on the committee , the application the in order to the Act , the Transportation the the Canada for herd the meeting of discussions on the proposal of buying the response Canada , the area private
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I move :
that , pursuant to the rule 47 ( 5 ) the Canadian Act , the Transportation the the Canada , the application tabled the this chamber , the 14 September 1998 , nowhere some carriers air enhancing and some people to negotiate and the agreements , with Earl , the reports to the committee on the Canadian and Communications and the the communication ;
that the committee based , and other witnesses , the Minister of the Transport and
that the committee be authorized to allow the premature Ministerial the the deliberations public ; and
that the committee , the report final the the pus final 15 December 1998 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I think that he is the one problem .
in the , the committee . is not yet set the the Senate . the not yet , the authority .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
he is a just the one of the
the Hon. the Speaker :
i am in either the honourable , honourable senators ,
the leave is the it leave ?
the senator Hays :
your Honour , the motion of the inclusion a motion of the traiterons the Canadian next sitting of the Senate .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the the the is the one of the one would the us traiterons the Canadian next sitting , the approval of the Senate . is not necessary .
business foreign
notice of Motion to Authorize the the committee , to the amendment brought to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty the the Atlantic North
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I give notice that the Canadian next sitting , I move :
that the committee on the Canadian and business foreign the power to examine the in the report of Korea to the Canada :
2 . the the peace - the peace , particularly the ability to the Canada . there to the the auspices of the important what body international the the Canada . the .
that the briefs received and the evidence heard the Canadian . the the committee on the Canadian and business foreign during the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament be providing the the committee ;
that the committee be authorized to sit during the committee and the cong?s the the Senate ;
that the committee be authorized to allow the premature Ministerial the the deliberations public ; and
that the committee , the report final the the most final 18 November 99 .
the Summit of the Francophonie
notice of inquiry
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , I give notice that the 21 October next , I give the attention of the Senate on the recent Summit of the Francophonie the " Moncton , September the .
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape
the possibility of the to help the relatively the Whole the conditions of eligibility the the Program of praise to the retirement 7.7 - Government Position of the government
the Honourable John Buchanan :
honourable senators , before the question I question , I wish wish to welcome to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the life is strange .
the last time that I have served in a chamber with the senator Boudreau , I occupais the Senate . the Canadian the trouble .
i was sitting of the side of the part government in the the Prime Minister and the was the the side of the Opposition .
i am pleased that we are afraid in the same position , except that the roles are continuing .
i do . work with the Honourable Senator for the long years .
he is possible that he be the the side - that the few years , but the the next election federal , the will I , si?gerai the the side - that the the Canadian . side - the .
i am a man . sympathetic , and the Honourable Senator Boudreau the record .
i wish question to the Leader of the government to the Senate . the Act , the the the amount of hearts and the " the " heart has the many years .
it has the " the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape , the Devco .
i know that the Honourable Senator suddenly , in the the senator Graham for bringing the Devco , the the least I , will .
my question . article in the situation . the Westray the coal the Phalen .
the motion in the Canadian d?monter the line of belt and the levels lower the Canadian mine .
the relatively attentive that the meaning Superior the Canadian mine , Phalen not be not CIDA , because it is the more about 7,5 million . tonnes of coal the one 5 and 6 million . tonnes of coal r?cup?rable in the areas 1A Coast , 2A Coast , 1QZ , 2QZ , and that 1Y and 2Y .
the United Moon Fishermen of America and the other unions represented the Canadian Devco attentive that the government , hopeful . the the lurch operating the Westray the the years of the next years , to the the relatively so work of the understanding of years , the right to their retirement , the end of the period of two years .
otherwise , the Westray will door and the workers . will not a " and pension .
the Leader of the government to the Senate round it , as the possible , this issue with the Prime Minister , to the the relatively so forevermore the work , the Westray the coal the Phalen and the operating the notice of 138,481 million . tonnes of coal r?cup?rable ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I thank the senator for his question .
as the Honourable Senator we , the so well reminded , we have already experienced a situation similar , except that I Chronicle the issues and that he connecting the answers .
the senator Buchanan :
this is exactly , and you obteniez , the right response .
the senator Boudreau :
the Honourable Senator presents the - be the situation exists the pleasant .
the Canadian answer to the question of the Honourable Senator , I wish comment the comments made . " the time .
this is with great the elements that I have agreed to carry the " and the confi?es , the so , the my predecessor the the losses the way remarkable .
i wish to the the in thank the the name of the Senate and the Canadian public . the Canada .
honourable senators , I have also been very affected by the words of welcome and the advice that I was dying the Opposition the the Opposition , the " the proposed , and other , the reconsidered the length of my tenure the this v?n?rable institution , is the Senate .
i would draw the , the the subject , he has the support total of my wife .
in response to the question raised by the Honourable Senator Buchanan , I contend that the Devco will the the centre of my concerns for the Canadian length of my mandate present .
we know , both the matter has a period considerable .
he has now , the Canadian a phase in both simple .
the first is the same time defined hon. to the resources human the work in the area for the many years .
this issue importance of the importance of only to the people , but also to all the honourable and the the government . the Canada .
the other reading , the course , is the whole the development economic to help the community , the U the Canadian transition in the .
human not know better that the senator who has asked the question that he is a that the one conviction transition of a global industrial the motion rural the one endowment employer and a global entering - industrial .
a moment transition . is never easy .
in the the concerns of the proprement refer , I bring course , constructive .
i preface however , the approach to the " transfer of resources to a exploitant the the area private is the years .
the the world , the suggested to say that he is acting the Canadian telecommunications the Canadian address the Canadian the .
if the resources houill?res can be incorporated and actively will , effectively and economically , I am sure that the new exploitant the the area private examine the proposal . Bryden .
the senator Buchanan :
honourable senators , I do speak . the Canadian privatization .
i have my own legal the this regard .
the problem that taken the notice of 138,481 million . tonnes of coal r?cup?rable , the motion that , if the leadership of Devco sphere the formal the line of belt to the the sections higher the Canadian houill?re Phalen and beyond the significance , he would the be too late to the one exploitant the the area private that mined . coal .
if a exploitant the the area private witty the the make , the motion . " , but it will then , the relatively the agreements . the " the years of the two years in so that the qualified to the benefits of retirement .
as the Honourable Senator the record , with the closure of the Westray Phalen , a great many of minor not have not including the Canadian formula the the program of praise to the retirement 7.7 .
the Westray Phalen has closed the the human not be handed his continuing and the motion of the the us in the .
i wish to print the senator to the subject of the somewhat 1 160 minor the will pay the Canadian closure of the Westray Phalen .
the process of ?vincement the previous began with the houill?re Prince .
the men who have been displaced when the Westray Phalen has closed and those who is capable of the face of this dirty the ?vinc? the workers of the houill?re Prince , the $ 250 the positive their view of the " off .
when the perpetrator these men - the " and other , it is something 1 per minor the not receive no provision of retirement , there was the the people 20 years of Orville , but who is the not enough seniors to have 75 point .
i find that the unfair and the motion . the odd , the chairman and the members of the executive of the United Moon Fishermen .
he is that a way to the the people - that dates the the Program of praise to the retirement 7.7 .
a bill is possible and the would the simple .
the the honourable not coded not the one huge operation of Halifax , stated in the Devco .
the same thing worth to the Sydney Steel Corporation , the the the product that is that the lower .
the prospect the Canadian Devco fees about 150 million . $ .
this program is considered to the time at the " strong expensive not . the labour - " distinct , but the equipment .
i ask the the new Minister of disability the question of the early possible with the Prime Minister .
the said , from the " the years of the campaign campaign provincial and Nova Scotia Nova , the Prime Minister has brought a letter to her Edna Budden and the the women of the relatively their lot that he usually the the officials of the Department of the all the issues of the Program of praise to the retirement 7.7 .
i know , he the the fact , but it is being made to the the men not be not . This caught to the .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , as the the sort not the senator , the program initiated by the government has been too affected by the closure premature the Canadian mine .
the first , the the people who have had a " the Program of praise to the retirement 7.7 , because the people were billion , Orville necessary , not have not have a have access to the Canadian the closure premature the same - the .
they have lost the time additionnel the people were necessary to the restructuring and the then the affected . Kelleher .
then , the program . , the hardest because the Canadian society Royce the the income , would have Abraham by the seaway the Canadian mine for this period .
the case of these two consequences of the closure premature the Canadian mine , the government has esteemed necessary to examine the program , the summer proposed the , the somewhat time to the relatively and the people families .
this review is still in the .
i have good faith that we can do something that the latest the situation , in particular , the groups which we represent the subject and the people were directly affected by the closure premature the Canadian mine .
i hope that the Prime Minister and the ministers involved will find a solution to this matter .
i bring certainly your interest and your comments . " that the rereading .
the Environment
the Nova Scotia Nova Scotia - fault of the contaminated the the sites of pollutants sites
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , if the Minister is incapable of the " the question next , the - be the - the us information . statement specific in a or two days .
what is the the fair the Government of the government . the Canada , the subject of the responsibility of the contaminated the the sites miniers the seaway or abandoned the are now , the individual , the Cape - Cape ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I am happy to speak to look my colleagues , the Council Office and the giving the the senator , on ethnic .
i have the impression that , as the motion of the to the other companies , the , the responsibility in the Brander not dispara?tra not .
as it is very little likely that a purchasing prominent this responsibility , he seems that it is done .
the Defence down
the Nova Scotia Nova Scotia - funding of the prospect of the damage occur by the floods in the coincidental the Cumberland
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , I wish I also to congratulate the new leader of the appointment .
as it has been Minister of the Finance to the level provincial , he knows that he not . not easy to find the the fund to the emergency .
my question to the coincidental the Cumberland , in Nova Scotia Nova , the the summer recently ravag? by the the floods .
four bridges the summer emport?s and four highways the summer ab?m?es the the point of the irr?parables .
as the Minister of the , the Nova Scotia Nova the one of federal , cover the the damage the most sponsor million . $ .
the Minister could the the the please the us that what measures to the Burmese the other for the members d?bloqu?s the fund to the Canadian redress the the damage in the coincidental the Cumberland ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I believe that this is the adresserait the the Minister of the National Defence .
i believe that , the following the the the senator has said , the Canadian province . indeed , the the assistance .
the my opinion , the answer will the signatures in the context of a program federal existing , but I donnerai the Canadian details to the senator , the I will have the other information to the subject .
the Transportation
the Nova Scotia Nova Scotia - Possibility of a bill to infrastructure for the renewal of the road EH
the Honourable Marjory LeBreton :
honourable senators , I wish to me as the wish to welcome to the new leader of the government to the Senate .
the Canadian a " bad management bid the federal - offs the .
honourable senators , the words , I just the courts are those of none other that the former prime minister Liberal the the New - New , Frank McKenna , such as quotations in the Globe and Mail , the notice October 1998 .
he has said then :
the record of the government is still the reluisant today , the the not the was the the time , the election ( a 1997 ) -
this is the motion of the the Atlantic ) want to the only to the people who and the ever demand?e the the government , the the motion of vision , a vicious numbered that he does the problem and a ray of hope ... - ... .
that the fact , the to deal . serious problems ?
he has included 911 and asked the senator Bernie Boudreau .
while the talking the first , the Nova Scotia Nova .
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
he is a the Canadian traffic EH the Nova Scotia Nova , the the summer the gifted the one real carnage and the case of many casualties .
in his capacity of Minister responsible for the Nova Scotia Nova , the manner to the Leader of the government to address the this deplorable the ?
is the the loan to the CCN and the hiring that the government will spend a bill to infrastructure federal , the legendary and the Canadian asset the the sections affiliated Mudslide the laroute EH ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I am told when the words Mr. McKenna would ramen?es the the carpet .
i am delighted to the fact that , in the speech , the Throne the last , he be the Canadian the very soaring and effective the Canadian vision that he ?voquait .
the the talks are now , the with the Minister of the Transport respect to the infrastructure routi?res .
in the speech , the Throne , he is the Canadian and infrastructure verbal traditional and the ones in the area of the communication .
i find that encouraging .
it is inscrira quite in the plan of the government , the then , the Nova Scotia Nova the possible to enter the the new millennium .
i bring certainly the Canadian . with the Minister .
the senator LeBreton :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate does it . the concerns the the former - Prime Minister McKenna ?
it is the most of the previous route this road know , what he is the .
he is a the one Highway highway extremely dangerous , as it . there , the in the other regions of our country .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the senator I ask if I share the opinion Mr. McKenna the , the plain , the previous was my associated in a practice of lawyers .
i do praiseworthy not the Honourable Senator , he saying that , the the point , I do I do the agreement clarifying McKenna .
this is ind?niable that the Whelans general , the summer created in our country . almost , much .
the Governor of the Bank of the Canada , the Canadian growth of our economy , the years of the four months trimestres is furthered the per cent , the the not to the ever seen .
however , despite this growth remarkable , our rate of inflation , consistent the the objectives accomplished - that the Organization a achievement Lorne .
certainly , this achievement . the motion . concr?tis? also in all the regions of our country .
Mr. . McKenna did the - be to screen the situation . the flamboyante .
i must however , the the honourable senators , the well , the bombing of the Canada Atlantic , the data on the creation of jobs and the unemployment figures clear that the Whelans the motion relates .
it is the person - be not also important that we , souhaiterions and not to the - be not the enabling across the but we continue to get the the efforts in the meaning .
we hope that , the advent , we can count on the support Mr. McKenna .
the same , I know very well , road , the .
i the I emprunt?e the numerous occasions .
the system highway Main the Canadian Nova Scotia Nova , the the part b?n?fici? the the funding of the government , the motion in that it the , the the the not . not perfect world .
he we must recognize the role that the senator Buchanan has played the this regard .
the province of the Nova Scotia Nova subject of a system highway , but I , I , he not . however , Inc. .
the Honourable Senator has spoken of a road the evaluation of the improvements .
i do not . the the Minister of the Transport lack of the question with the counterpart provincial and the federal .
the Environment
the Nova Scotia Nova Scotia - Up of the ?tangs bitumeux the Sydney
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , my question . question also to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
he will turn , as the our first , for the end to the advisory them on the region . the fastest the best .
i do will not the comments on the technical , escape the issues that we , we raised the " now .
many of my friends environnementalistes work of hard - up since much for attention of the Canadian the government on this issue .
in the , Mr. Don Deleskie , a particular , the same . the deadline of the hunger .
he has the Canadian , the career of d?contaminer the ?tangs the the assistance of a simple pelle .
the the the Minister respond to the question , I wish him that the , recently , the Senate . adopted a bill to the spark the not treating or the the enl?vement or the Canadian production of goods chemical toxins dangerous as the PCB the the odd in the place tainted .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I thank her the senator , his question .
in the , I thank all the honourable the question of the issues of a region . I know that the .
i know , the question of the ?tangs bitumeux the Sydney .
in the past , he is the in the the deterioration of contaminated the the ?tangs bitumeux .
some of the provinces have cost . Six and not have not the Canadian good results .
the the money . the money for the information that the thin results .
the two levels of the , what the Senate . affiliation policy , the attempted the restrictions the the solutions to the community .
these barbarous the well failed .
however , this time , this , in the part of this important initiative , the government , the with the assistance of the government provincial , namely , 62 million . $ to initiate this , the us the hope , should be the Order final the the problem .
however , the government . the experience of the past , experience , not the not very plaisante or culmination , he has been decided to do take the community , the research , a solution to the problem .
the right proposed just the Canadian community .
the problem with this way of the the motion that the - the demands of the time .
he is much more sizeable the restrictions a solution that the ways to obtain a consensus the the public . the community .
the result , a group Joint composed of the Canadian various industries the Canadian community , the single the Right .
the government , the part of a program , jointly with the government provincial , and those of the the are engaged in providing 62 million . $ , the 70 per erroneous the the federal .
a commitment to the summer the .
the group Joint is the the point of acknowledgement the first step the Hon. the and the hope that the the government corrective will be taken the most efficiently possible .
it permanent the only to point is divided the the public . the community .
i have seen the the case where the " the option for the other thing and the results obtained not have not been very palatable .
the principles of the payment by the sign , the Canadian prevention of the pollution and the the Elimination crushing the the events chemical toxins - Government Position of the government
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , a consensus the the public . the community is a thing wonderful .
however , in the case , this is responsible for the the the motion a not be here . the imput?e the Canadian community .
this is the company the the left a mess .
the government . the bill to the the us just the feasibility , the Leader of the government support the mark the principles that which the pollueur must pay and , particularly , the Elimination crushing the Canadian manufacturing , the Canadian production and the the use of such events chemical toxins , to the in the future . the dollar than face the the problem ?
in passing , the the lost as the time with the solutions cut by the government and the consensus local that the little of time that he would the letter to the consensus . is not a subject of concern .
i wish to a view of the opinion of the Minister of the Nova Scotia Nova , the Canadian the government to the Senate , the the principles . important to the pollueur - payer , the Canadian prevention of the pollution and , the important , the Canadian the Elimination crushing the the use and the Canadian production of the most of the events chemical toxins .
the just just the truth that the sustainable the the broad the Canadian British - British the one rate . high the wastes in their board , the the motion result of the production and the the use of many events chemical .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the participation local and the rights of a consensus local the summer lips the the two levels of the by the community .
the government . is the " the requ?tes .
this is a process . valid and necessary , the the the ralentit a little the progress the the ground .
the the the motion of the other issue raised by the Honourable Senator , I say that he has learned per year , may the ?tang the nicotine .
the not someone not a moment pollution the perceived today , the
i do I think that the Star majeur with the the the said , honourable senator .
i wish to discuss the the subject . in full with the , but not the the the it has said that I honourably particularly .
we do we have to the one such a the said .
the senator Spivak :
honourable senators , I am pleased to see that the Leader of the government to the Senate is the the least with us that he is desirable traps the automotive the Canadian most of the events chemical toxins .
thank the this statement . Part .
the Agriculture
the effectiveness of the program to the help the farmers
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , I wish I also the welcome to the new leader of the government to the Senate and I , wish to the success can .
my question the Act , the the the fastest , the
the farmers . the Nova Scotia Nova the blood three years of drought .
the program that the government has developed on ethnic not the the not blind .
he paying the the farmers 70 per - the average of their income of the three years in the
honourable senators , 70 per - nothing , the motion zero .
the Leader of the government is the the " the armed the that ?
in the affirmative , the will be the this regard ?
i wish to the attention of the in Saskatchewan , in Alberta and the the Manitoba .
the farmers are here , Ottawa has three days .
they are a situation . crisis in the Canada .
the Leader of the government to the Senate itself . the message to the cabinet and insistera the Act , followed none of the problem of devised national which our country . threaten in some sectors of the industry crop ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I know that the senator Gustafson , the Canadian Saskatchewan . - month the , I have had the opportunity to me to the Regina the CHST the member of the board of the Canadian the Bank of the Canada , the the I occupais the the time .
the Canadian this visit , we have been developed the the armed the Canadian the Canadian the Agriculture in the Prairies by the leaders of the area crop and the Canadian and economists .
the so I do understand course not also , the situation that the senator , I am when the in the Canadian understand the difficulties the profiles and the desire to the farmers . the Canadian and rules of the beginning playing .
the governments federal and provincial and provided a balancing Supplementary the 1.5 billion . $ the the farmers in the part of the Program of the in the Canadian origin related to the income crop .
a part of the difficulty has the the fact that , the " is the , only 190 million . $ the summer paid to the farmers .
however , the Canadian reseller the the year , we anticipate that the floor questionable 550 million . $ .
the pace will the relocation and the motion to expect that the problem talked by the senator , lessen , the .
the senator Gustafson :
honourable senators , I thank the Minister of the answer .
the problem , the motion that the program ACRA not operating not .
the formulation . is not good , as the Middle the honourable the the two sides of the House of His the the Prairies and the Canadian Nova Scotia Nova .
it is operating . This not because the it is based on 70 per - the income to the the three years in the
the farmer who has known three bad years of the motion is the difficulty .
the program . the d?clenchera not in the case .
this is that a the the major problems .
the government must redistribute the credits meet the way to the the the " may be a lack .
this is that a subject of concern national .
the country . " the WTO the losing its farmers .
the us . " yesterday evening that the 30 per the 40,000 over farmers would be Tax .
the problem importance of such emergency that he called a response immediate .
the the task professional agricultural the regulation the deputy the Prime Minister .
the Prime Minister Trudeau not the not the human the most rock in the West , as the Minister of the , but it is the record , Regina , in Saskatchewan . It the motion of the the Brandenburg Work the the legislative legislation , and the farmers . the people . the well as the
they , the terrorist the the Wheat the Canadian found .
however , he is the publication the .
the Leader of the government to the Senate will be the please the " to the Prime Minister that the farmers want to the the speech on the situation in the area crop ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , he I will bring the suggestion is carried the the name of the senator Gustafson .
business foreign
notice of Motion to the cultivation the committee to study of affected the the Union monetary European
leave having been granted , back to the opinion of Motion to the government :
the Honourable John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Thursday p.m. October 1998 , I move :
that the committee on the Canadian and business foreign the power to study and the make the Act , affected to the Canada . the entrepreneurial the the Union monetary European and the Canadian and concerns related to the Canadian trade and the investment ;
that the briefs received and the evidence heard the Canadian . the the committee on the Canadian and business foreign during the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament be providing the the committee ;
that the committee , the report final the the most final 15 December 1998 ; and that the committee divested the powers necessary to the premature the the results of the study content in the report final and the date , the 24 December 1998 ; and
that the committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practical consequently , the table the report of the the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate . " no , and that obedience report be deposited have been tabled the the Senate .
on business orders
the speech , the Throne
motion of the Canadian the Adresse the answer to Ajournementdu debate
the Senate proceeded to the study of the speech that His Excellency the Gouverneure general , the Canada has discharged to the opening of the Thirty - sixth Parliament .
the Honourable Richard H . Jeffrey , seconded by the Honourable Senator Furey , moved :
that the Adresse the the text following the motion to His Excellency the Gouverneure general , the Canada :
the Hon. Excellency the very hon. Adrienne Clarkson , Chanceli?re and Compagnon Main the the Order of the Canada , Chanceli?re and Commandeur the the Order of the M?rite military , Gouverneure general and Commandante the Opposition the the Canada .
QU' IL PLAISE the VOTRE EXCELLENCE :
we , namely , trying and worry the Queen Majesty , the Senate . the Canada , assembl?s the Parliament , prions respectfully Your Excellency the entertain our humbles thanks to the Ex speech that contemporaries the lollipop to the two Houses of the Parliament .
turning to the part of ideas that it has made in the speech , the the moon . the Canadian of the possible . the , are the UI , regulatory and barley , registered in the accountability the the Canada .
the motion far the Canadian painful battle seeing , the debt legal the , he not there has not be long , the us privait the potential , bouleversait our priorities and assombrissait our future .
the " the sacrifice businesses by all the Canadian and through the Canadian determination and the the excellent management of our government , we take face the the choice . different certainly , but the numbers exaltants the knowledge to what areas orienter the resources paramount the Canadian public Canadian .
we know , the the long among the great public , the media and our own party politics of many ideas , the many dreams , the many priorities and the many ways different the letter to the same goals .
he considers the country government . hear , the world carefully , the make its own education and Programs and , finally , the Whole the one of the action .
this is the following the plan of action that he is that specific and the effectiveness of the enforcement that he will necessary .
the most , the motion of the quality of the decisions and the the actions that depend the well - be the the Canada and the the Canadian .
the Gouverneure general , he and the direction that the government has the intent of the and the the doors the ability now , opening the Canadian and winding the potential to the Canada , a future better and the association to the first generations of Canadians , the next millennium .
these doors indicate to Entr?e the , and the " Sortie the .
they will jury the Canadian and opportunities , and the Act , the walls .
they are the access to the the Diaspora happening , the the education , the Canadian research , the Canadian and jobs productive and gratifiants .
the Gouverneure general , stated that the the Canada . the Canadian to the the Canadian , the years of the years , in the the bloodstream why we are estimated that these objectives are important .
today , the honourable senators , I wish you receive a word of the way , I see this country , the Hon. the , the Hon. this and certainly the Hon. future , such as I , con?ois .
this is to me a guest and a great pleasure , the other the honourable the answer to the speech , the Throne .
as I just the position that I finish you do the Canadian my thoughts personal , he is important that I , told with due .
since my arrival the the Senate , I understand more the real sense of these plead ; then let - I , you describe the manner - or should the ways , the I perspective our country .
he is the first , first , the Canadian geography , which is crucial .
i grew to the centre of the Canada .
the so that statement the choquer . the Canadian people in this city , and the many other , Toronto , the motion however true .
the centre - conceived the Winnipeg . is that the 20 minutes of the centre longitudinal the the Canada .
this is the not only a singularit? geographical , the motion also a reality calibre .
it means that he is the two fuseaux horaires the the west and two and shocking - even three - to the motion .
it means that the half Coast the country in participating the great repository and the great beauty of the Prairies while the same . anticipating the the motion is formulate ancr?e in the Bouclier Canadian .
the not be unaware the I grew , and the Saskatchewan and the Ontario , the have the the country . turn different the ones that the people of the people unless favoris?es .
honourable senators , I am hasten the honourable else the fear that you not confondiez our situation geographical with the spotlight or the insularit? .
our links Cultural and language with the Quebec are formulate enracin?s in the community franco - manitobaine established to Saint - Boniface .
during the the history of the Canada , it has been the one of the two communities . language and the culture realm the most important to the foreign the the Quebec .
our institutions cultural - the the areas of the gifted , the the ballet and the Canadian music - the are granted , scientists international and the enracin?es in a rich mixture of groups working .
our world . the business , built in the Canadian a century of Trade international the events of basic and now rich the the contribution of the new reproductive , is a the the most open on the foreign .
we brought the world world as our domestic natural .
our farm , old and n?gociants understand the long - dramas the Canadian globalization the their Undeterred , the
the place . the Manitoba in the world . " - be found his illustration the most ?clatante in the Olympics panam?ricains remarkably imperfect the the are held in the the summer the .
this was the event , the important to the kind of the the history of the Canada and the third , the " the be held in the the Senate in the world .
no . would be known we tell the the Canada and the the world world .
honourable senators , the so I would cajole to my Manitoban the advent these past comments , the not the not my intention .
i wish simply the council that the Manitoba and Winnipeg are the the evidence dynamic the the Canada present , the the the motion is the Right and the comment the great , the the magnitude .
although the malice , this impression , if it is the not copy of the , would the lead to a regrettable incompr?hension the the country , the the needs and the the potential .
our Fathers of the Confederation . including the declining and the gentle the Senate . the " to a representation balanced the all the regions .
those of the us who is just not the great centres of people have the duty and the responsibility of the greatest and often , as the the Senate that the the committee , the so that the all the Canadian . their views .
i rise , today , as member of a generation , particularly , the the conditionne essentially my point of the .
i am unborn the the direction of the World War World , the so that some events and some thoughts the this time and the the years , the act follow the ever costs to my correctly .
i have the my education , in the fantastiques years 50 , decade the " the fact , the Canadian , in the century .
i have undertaken my first , political just the the time when Lester Pearson notes the leadership of the Liberal Party of the Canada .
the same , the motion to the years of a evening bridge , along Mr. Pearson , then Chief of the Opposition , and the one little group of Winnipeg , to the end of the years 50 , the I am I committed to the life to the Liberal Party .
i have the first worked as usual the Canadian Hill , Ottawa , for Mr. Pearson was first minister .
incidentally , I do I am prevent the point that , the the the the summer of the the government for the only five years and the the not the ever led a government majority , Mr. Pearson , change and enriched the Canada for the .
in the this statement , I think the the great program social that the and the government . the opinions .
it is , he I , came to other day , the feeling that he is the difficult to imagine the Canada . 99 . our flag insufficient .
the well , the Canadian , this act of leading will policy and the pride for the Canada Gallery " era Pearson .
i have also been witness the the entrepreneurial Mr. Trudeau and the the route of the remarkable leadership .
Ottawa was much a p?le the sovereignists to the young woman and the young women , pregnant the energy and the ideas , the reverse that the was an and that the Canada was the place where the was achievable .
no - those of the the , in the number of this chamber today , the the were here , this time and the people shared the experience of these years . will never the forgotten and , the most is , not the ever been known a moment effervescence in our country .
he is the one thing fundamental that we have apprise , " no , the - Assessment the Canada and not have the " the great have the subamendment , midst the importance and the Place of the idea of the Canada for the Canadian and the the people of the world world .
honourable senators , the the motion of candour that I reflected the the years 1966 the 1969 , the motion of remarkable feeling of optimism the the d?gageait the world and the impr?gnait . a native .
Hanover 67 was the " bubble and fascinating the Canadian trust the the Canada . itself and the the place in the world .
the Canadian reflection , I am going now the Canadian the power huge the one such feeling of trust and the pan , the Canadian the source incredible the energy that he can be to a country and his people .
today , the I do I am prevent the necessity the strength of the Canada and the Hon. economy , the absence of the conflict international the dispute , the mechanization ?poustouflante the the examinations in the area of the Science and the Canadian Technology , the Canadian puissante combination of all these factors the , the , not have the latest the quality and the repository of the life of all the Canadian and the the almost 6 billion . " human the concerns our peoples , the state of the Canadian , the and the most intens?ment , the same optimism the " animait when the young man , I am came to the Hill the the Parliament .
finally , honourable senators , I am timely to the Canadian the point of the Canadian , a the motion to the Senate has very little of time .
i am came here , there has a little more of a year , both the new career .
the so I had a similar to court , the the years of the 30 years previous I have been a man of business of the motion tried to build a business diligence the dark the the Canada and the .
this , the I have a learned the the realities of the environment , the business and the the functioning of our economy .
i have learned that he was safe the have the the people generations and the establishing in all the biathlon .
i have learned that the leadership is a federal exig?e and implemented , all the levels by the business vibrant .
i have learned that the pride experienced respect to a company and the the events . the key fundamental the the success and that the pride that a person having to the respect to the country grandit , repeatedly when our products and services . export?s a little over the the world .
honourable senators , we must continue to make the best party , our closest and the our links the friendship and continue to avoid the traps associated the the in?galit?s in the repository and the the international social .
he , is the years , Sir John A . Macdonald the fact , first assessment of our future , and that the the ever been so true that today , the
we , Canadians , we remain strongly attachment to our priorities and the country identity .
a society , not . ?prise or the justice or the " no further truly advance .
however , as the country . the Brandenburg are the most of the Shuswap drawn , we must be focus on the needs particular , the 21 century .
the first , he is that the Canada has a global and a life cultural , off and the attirantes to capter the public . the young Canadians and their quality of new outlook .
this is with these atouts that we can the voluntary the living and the make career here , the the Canada .
honourable senators , I am still drove the one firm conviction , the very his concern in the enthusiasm and the pan are I have tasted here , there has the Canadian 30 years , and I do I do the only to believe that we can the make revivre .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the Honourable George J . Furey :
honourable senators , the motion to me a guest and a privilege of support the motion , introduced by my esteemed colleague and friend , the senator Jeffrey , to the adoption of a Adresse the answer to the speech , the Throne speech by His Excellency the Gouverneure general .
i do here , the women and the the men who have the many of the Canada , and the make the Canadian this great institution . honore and I impressionne .
i wish to a time to congratulate the senator Graham and the senator Carstairs , and the " as the Leader of Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate .
i do I do the years long - to the the look at the implementation , but during the two first weeks turbulent the September , I have been pleased with what commitment to accomplissaient their job . the House .
my best wishes to Yolande in their new part and I know that they continue to us to their contribution and their assistance .
i wish to add the welcome to the senator Boudreau , the effect of relais the CHST the Leader of
i manquerais the my duty , honourable senators , if I do f?licitais our Gouverneure general to the speech , the Throne that it has discharged yesterday .
the achievements the CHST the communicatrice , newspaperman and persistent the many cases valid , the fact , the the great figures of our country .
i am very enthousiasm? by the perspective of the the effect and the spirit animer the position chairman of Coll the the years of the next years .
honourable senators , the motion of honour and a privilege of the " the life public , this time , our history , a time when the challenges . the size and the potential stimulantes , a method of globalization and the magic technologique .
we are indeed , I weeks . a new millennium .
the time . is not only exaltante to the country . world , it Gallery , a point turning to Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the Labrador .
these games months of 1999 are all officers a time , studied for which the Newfoundland - established r?fl?chiront the Canadian the the people roles the the public . the country and the people prospects of future .
today , the Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the Labrador the tranquility in the tourmente the the great changes technological and economic , balayent the world .
the people of this area . the actuaries however , just ; they are called the people within and the people learning of long date for the opposite to the realities of the change quick .
the " and creative , and individual , and solidarity , and determination and their diligently to the work , they realize their dreams and Constitutional to the prior to province and their country .
the statistics economic recent we in saying long - the evolution of our province .
the Conference Board of the Canada has indicated that the rate of rBGH real the the GDP the Newfoundland - Newfoundland , the the editorship the 5,2p. per , is the most high the the Canada .
the prospects of employment , am?liorent also , because of unemployment of unemployment the decreased the most of $ 1.25 been the year , the
the honourable senators , the the armed the the benefits of m?gaprojets as Hibernia , the Land the the years Churchill the the Churchill and the summer and the the commodity the Voisey' s Bay .
these great the are cruciaux to the success economic the Newfoundland - Newfoundland , but the history . far the the complete that the
in all the jurisdictional the the economy , the the companies , our province remportent the the success of the in the ?clatants .
certainly , the export traditional as the seaway mining and the the forestry and the fishery privatization of the evidence essential to our , the be economic .
but it is the not to forget the real dynamic the diversification the the Belgian the the businesses .
the the companies implant?es the us are the Gallery in the the areas as the communication , the technical manufacturi?res the forefront and the management of the dumping dangerous .
honourable senators , the one of the areas of rBGH the most important to Newfoundland - Newfoundland , these past years , the summer the export , and the trend should be used .
the evening 99 the , the latest the contribution of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , the Canada . the fiftieth anniversary of the coming in the Confederation , the summer a ?clatant success , the international national .
the festivals , the ballet and his other activities , including the decision lengths of the turn of the CN , the summer the , the known a huge success .
these activities . contributed to prepare the next , Jacqueline , in 2000 , the Canadian the milli?me anniversary of the arrival of the Banks in the New operates .
the Olympics the winter the the Canada . 99 , uphold the Corner Brook , the so won looking the success .
qualifi?es the the one of the best ?ditions the the games , the Paralympics the fact truth our province , the t?l?spectateurs and the the Gallery of the whole of the country .
the success of the Olympics the winter the the Canada , honourable senators , Sen the one of the great forces the Newfoundland - Newfoundland , I wish to mention , the the spirit generous , ing?nieux , bienveillant and Lynn the the Newfoundland - established .
the said repeatedly that the indicators economic not viewed not , the one only , the scene . the fact , the corporation .
the Canada . is not become the great country . the motion today , only in the Canadian the return economic .
he is clear that the the political economic base and responsible play a role is , and the government land - neuvien . as the government , should be f?licit?s to their books in the area .
the height of our province and the country , not the however , only to their performance economic .
this , the Canadian the Canada . in the the fact , live , the the the topic of the United - United , the the in the the envy of the world world , the motion of the passion of the Canadian , wish to the protection all the members vulnerable of their society , all those who is the not in the Canadian to withdraw the one - the .
honourable senators , he not be ever to this , the mighty if we want to the make the envy of the my world .
we must continually ways to aviver this great love of the Canadian and never the lurch the ?teindre .
this is the Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the the Labrador that these values are the best illustr?es , honourable senators ,
the quality of life of the Newfoundland - established fourth , the economic conventionnelle , because he is impossible to direct a price to the spirit community , the the " cultural and the Canadian compassion .
he not the no doubt , honourable senators , the Canadian of the life is directly linked to the nature generous and charitable the one from the
the the skills national the 1997 , the virtues , the activities and the participation , the people of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the the Labrador included , a time among the citizens of the generous the the Canada .
the Canadian the third of the people . the Canadian the time to the the Depression the charitable .
the Newfoundland - established affichaient the most , per - contribution financial the Canadian and agencies of affordable the the Canada , 84p. per - and people of Newfoundland - Newfoundland . the Canadian 15 years , the Canadian and credit for help Johnson .
this openness of mind , in spite often the time trying , is concerned enracin?e in the history of Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
this is the Canadian people who are the great revers been 500 years and that the president tie the " the place . the grain .
diminution :
honourable senators , he is happening . the the things positive today , the Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the the Labrador , but much of challenges remain the challenges and many of problems , the deal .
he is very encouraging the look that the government , the commitment , in the speech , the Throne , the the deal to the problems .
i wish to speak , the two problems in particular .
the Prime is the problem of the brain the the Newfoundland - established .
many of families of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the the Labrador the Canadian pain of the basis of the friends and the the families to the other parts of the Canada and the the world .
the decline of the people to the 1 July the was the most there have registered been the closure of the fishery on the Grand Pott , but it is still too high .
he is encouraging the plight that the Prime Minister Tobin and the government . IT the the problem and determined to the harshness .
he is encouraging , the honourable senators , the look that the government , the commitment , in the speech , the Throne , but only to work , sentenced the young Canadians to the Canada , but also to do know that the Canada is really the best place where live in the 21 century , a place where the best and the most highly in the rest of the world both in surprises .
the commitment to invest the the fund in the research , the business beneficial and the skills of the skills help address the young the Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the world . the Canada , remain in their country to the objective their dreams .
we have a challenge telecommunication the challenges , honourable senators , the Canadian continue to improve the quality of the post dispens? the our young and that the potential of the lurch .
the young Canadians , Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the same attentive from the best party , these new opportunities for the be financially .
they not have the make a a balancing get the federal - education .
the University Memorial the Newfoundland - Newfoundland famous , in 1999 , the fiftieth anniversary of the the institution making spirituality the the dipl?mes .
since 50 years , the University Memorial the role of the capital in the development of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the the Labrador .
the so , proposing to a post - quality dispens? by the University Memorial and the Canadian and institutions academic and coll?giaux the the Canada . is underscored the the years of the years , the many students , Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the world . the Canada . the uncertainty the the students secondary the case of obstacles financial as the lack of the and the costs of tuition high .
the many other . forced to abandon their education , the the have completed the case of problems as the tremendous debt of the students .
honourable senators , I know the problems for the have v?cus personally .
the Canadian opportunity extraordinary that the centre for me to tuition gratuite instaur?e in the years 60 by the Prime Minister Smallwood the the time and the government , I think that I do would not in the Canadian to this will the the Senate today , the
fortunately , it is the the investment , the summer announced in the speech , the Throne and the purpose of the Canadian productivity and the fight against the brain the the brain will orient?s to the universities Canadian , the the support of the activities of research and development in the the areas as the care of health and the high technology .
7.54 the Canadian and initiatives as the fund . staffing of the scholarships the students , the millennium , these new resources initiatives greatly to the the post post the delivery to the students .
the power " a similar avanc?e , the children be able grow in a community that the people needs basic are satisfied and they must be encouraged to the tutorial and the benefit to the maximum of their education projects and high .
as the honourable senator know , he is the press the children who live in the poverty , the Canada .
the the not there was that a single child poor the the Canada , it off despite the rights , the extraordinary fabric social the country , the
if the Canada is truly the the plans social and economic in the future , he was to come to go to the poverty , the children .
honourable senators , as the the the view enough clear in the speech , the Throne , the condition of the children . " the Order of the Order of the concerns of the government .
the the many insisted on the government that the government , to the latest the fate of the children , the country .
in extending the program current such the credit to tax to children , the program of food the the new , Born and the cong?s parentaux , our government . is committed to take the the government urgently .
the collaboration with the governments provincial and the Canadian coordinator the offer the the program and services . " the basis , the Canadian success of this initiative .
honourable senators , when the the Halifax the one of all the the world come visit Newfoundland - Newfoundland , as the rest of the Canada . the , a great the Canadian . the the attention the us . the beauty of our Oceans , the our forests , the our mountains and the our rivers .
if we want to the calumny the the Canada , as the country . the incredible beauty and the one of diversity environmentally , we must be more to protect the Environment natural , there was the many cash the plantes and the animal the the existence is danger by the Soviet human in their habitat .
honourable senators , we to Newfoundland - Newfoundland know better that anyone that when the balance of the nature . bouscul? , the impact on the people can be d?vastatrices and the great devised .
this is therefore , and the enthusiasm that I made to the Canadian the government in the Canadian protect the integrity of our systems openness .
the " the the government to the deficit the bond of Greenhouse sites and the feasibility of the regulations the whole the the cash species of sumo , the Canada will the extent of respect to enriching the " and generations future . the the the policy , the collection of our history natural .
honourable senators , the the years of the campaign campaign the 1997 , the government has promised to the Canadian that the half of the spillover budget would set the Canadian new spending in the priorities Social and that the other half would divided between the the small the tax reductions and the Income the Canadian debt national .
in the speech , the Throne , the government has r?affirm? that this commitment figurera in the next budget .
this is a good news for all the Canadian , the blood . the years of cuts to the program and the the services . drop of Tax package .
he is the addition , not . forget the importance of shares the debt national .
if the not . not a surprising to the honourable , he , will help the one myriad of Canadians who are unwilling the reverse that the most of being of the government . the Canada is Operating by the service of the debt national - which the editorship the somewhat 40 billion . $ by the ; the this money could be more useful the the was spent words , but we do we not the make as the Canadian debt . will not been decreased .
a approach balanced is essential in the economy mondialis?e the day , the one based the the rapid quickly and the motion in renovation developments .
the powers public be a be more flexibles and perform the feasibility more of outstanding strategic the " and challenges .
this is essential if we want adh?rer the the values the us apart the the rest of the world .
in our education . parliamentarians , we must undertake and drug all the levels of the " no , meaning of the the great values Canadian , we distinguent , because the the operation of the point of the fruits - to the fact , our society , the the operation of the have the the children respectable , the the operation of the have a lack of care of health to our cherished and our people seniors and the the operation of the have the the capabilities , even the the failure , in our systems the education , which is parviennent not to provide the the opportunity playing the all the Canadian , the motion of the corporation , in systemic .
the great poet English John Donne the the very well as the Hon. short , but rending Smart the Island d?serte the .
in the the member of the great society Canadian , I urge all the honourable the editorials the last strophe the the Editor and the interpeller the conscience collective Canadian , the ever the be the us we are remember the the values the us distinguent :
the , by virtue , not cherchez have the knowledge to the breaking the breaking , because he breaking to you .
the peace - the approach to the government in the Canadian direction public will vital if the " means that the government requires a role positive and compassionate auXXIe century .
i am enthousiasm? by the initiatives budget in the speech , the Throne and the the potential to either the Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the the Canada , the the approach to the 21 century .
honourable senators , I want to await the work with each of the honourable to do the so that the Canada , indeed , better place where live in the 21 century .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Boudreau , the debate is adjourned . )
the adjournment
leave having been granted , back to the opinion of Motion to the government :
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 58 ( 1 ) at ) the the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate adjourns today , the the remaining adjourned until the near , the Thursday p.m. October 1998 , the 9 at the
the Hon. the Speaker :
is the the Canadian agreed , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Canadian privilege
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , both honourable senators , the knowledge that they wished raised the question of privilege .
the course , if the Senate . I , I am prepared to their party , honourable .
however , I wish to the I have already made a decision on the two questions of privilege and that the Senate . agreed that the motions proposed by the two senators , these two questions that renvoy?es the the committee Standing the the privileges and the the Rules .
if the Senate . I , the honourable senators could the just repeat the motions resolutions the Canadian the last session .
however , if the honourable senators wish to speak , they are free of the sincerity .
the Honourable Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I wish simply I assure the I have the right to what he allies .
the two questions of privilege the summer raised in order to the article 43 of the Rules , His Honour , the one ' s , awareness of the honourable the summer voice and the question . was referred to the committee .
i believe that is that he is , the motion . This the wording that the Senate is the the same opinion that the Canadian the last session and that , with the leave of the Senate , or in order to the rule 59 ( 10 ) the the Rules , the two senators , given to propose their motions the - the - sought .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the I - the " the country . the Canadian and the Canadian privilege raised during the last session , I am plierai welcome to the desire to this honourable chamber as the Canadian the Canadian make .
however , he is the " the least two schools of journalistic to the the motion of whether the , when he is the prorogation , the Parliament , before the one issue of privilege the the summer raised before the prorogation .
i wish simply have a more , certainty .
the my opinion , the motion . the question of privilege . serious , and I believe that the honourable were the agreement on the point , the prorogation .
in the , His Honour the necessary to the question of privilege looking based on the view .
however , as it is the two schools of journalistic , I want a more a precondition the certainty , and the motion ? I have given a notice oral .
if the honourable are the agreement , I speak . Mitchell the this matter and His Honour clinics , the the motion . the this notice , the Canadian . the privilege attach based on the view .
he not there will then , no doubt , and the motions appropriate will be made to the Canadian . the matter to the committee , a time that the - the will have set .
the Hon. the Speaker :
all the contrary , I will now to the honourable the the senator Andreychuk .
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I want to ensure , I also , the question motion and the question of privilege . was not mourn .
i do I do the intent of the Consolidated the long and the broad that the above .
i am talking the chamber , honourable senators , the comments that I have expected the 14 September .
the U.S. Financial the article the the Ambassador not allowed to the report of the committee , the Aboriginal Peoples .
he is the one some of the Ambassador the years ; it is the no doubt that they have been Casey the the attention of the newspaper .
that the " valid , " I do I votes not the the fact that the newspaper that article the Ambassador of the report .
the justice . bri?vet? , I do will not repeat my comments .
all the comments that I want to the I have I faitesle p.m. September .
i wish simply that he , the fact mention in this motion .
the documents the people were tabled the are sufficient ?loquents , and I am outset that the decision remain inchang?e and that I can now suggest the motion to the the case , referred to the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules .
the Canadian the Speaker
the Hon. the Speaker :
the least , a place , not wish to the Canadian . the privilege , I will make my decision , the motion of the the same that I have renduele p.m. September .
i agree that he is the in pr?somption the rights , the privilege and that the Honourable Senator might propose his motion .
i am asking however , the not be not change that the Canadian motion .
the the the the committee . the not yet been set , the not cannot chamber , the " a committee , not there is the
the the person - be sorely the Canadian motion . the following : " D?s that the Committee of Selection will have set , the this matter that matter to the committee to the
is the the Canadian agreed ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Honourable Marcel Prud ' s
honourable senators , I have attended the one meeting . morning , the 9 at 1:30 , the the motion d?roul?e the subject allure .
we , we know why the not the not consider this committee . morning ?
the meeting the jobs . the committee has occurred in 9 at 1:30 , then , debate so .
when the - that the northern the the the the other committees are created ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I do I do answer to this issue .
i do not the Leader Deputy of the government . red .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I do I do that the this issue , valid .
it . would have done the period of the issues .
let - I do the , will .
we are the the beginning of the session and the leaders of the side - the wish to the possibility of illness , the attention that he not we , the the Canadian the make the Canadian membership of the committee that the Committee of Selection will be .
the meetings strain as tomorrow on the subject .
is the answer , Senator Prud ' .
referred to the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I move that :
that the question of privilege to the subject of the disclosure not mandated the Ambassador of a report of the committee on the Canadian and aboriginal Peoples be referred to the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules when he will have set .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion ?
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , for the precise , the Committee of Selection not r?organise not a committee , this task up to the Senate . the Canada .
the formulation should be the one time that he will have set the the Senate . the Canada , investigated the the report . "
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , you , you , with the the us modifions the motion in the meaning ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Honourable Marcel Prud ' s
honourable senators , I do I do , if possible to the beginning of the session , using the Rules and the Senate because the country . friend , the senator Hays , as the this position . the regulatory .
this is the " the fight the Rules .
yesterday , I am I opposed to the adoption of the motion of appointing the the Committee of Selection .
this is that the people have the with great the haste and the speed .
they have been the Canadian ; and the members of two committees .
my position . excessively not the Rules .
the meeting of the morning be , as the I , using the privatization the members of all the committee .
that the leaders of the two sides of the House have decided to make the appointment of the members of two committees only to me bothers not .
but the that the word that I feel the Rules , I do I do the agreement .
we do we are the article carefully the motion of the summer agreed yesterday , then , I thought that it . would now , the
i would have debate . the issues . earlier today , the but I favour expect to tomorrow .
i do feel not the Rules when I say that the Committee of Selection the years . morning and that he would have mentioned the honourable the will the Canadian all the committee .
he has decided , in his wisdom , the not run the the members of the two committees .
the senator Hays has a reason and I also .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I do will not determine the the reason or the the wrong .
i wish to tell you wish to the study of the reports the the Committee of Selection the summer surgeons the near .
you embark , the opportunity , the Canadian the study of the Prime and the the second reports the the Committee of Selection , the make concerns your suggestion .
the Senate at the Canadian motion of the Honourable Senator Andreychuk , seconded by the Honourable Senator DeWare :
that the question of privilege to the subject of the disclosure not mandated the Ambassador of a report of the committee on the Canadian and aboriginal Peoples be referred to the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules when he will have set .
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
the Hon. the foetus the 9 September that the question of privilege looking based on the view and the case , the matter to the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules to the and report .
as we , we saw the , the one time , the question of privilege is raised to the information of the clarification , and I ask the Governor Hon. the statuer , as it . the previous the , the it looking based on the view .
if His Honour , consequently , the I am prepared to propose a motion appropriate .
the Canadian the Speaker
the Hon. the Speaker :
if no Senator not wish to the honourable the Canadian . the privilege , I am prepared to take a decision has .
as I , I foetus the 9 September , the Honourable Senator has the view , the commissioner that the question of privilege was based on the view and the person put the motion to the chamber , the " the committee .
referred to the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I move :
that the question of privilege the one witness the the messages the the committee on the Canadian the Agriculture and the the forestry the matter to the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules , when he will have set , for consideration and report .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate . adjourned . the Thursday p.m. October 1998 , the 9 at the motion
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 3
the Thursday p.m. October 1998
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the dumping
Maxwell Tabled '
the fishery and the Oceans
the provinces marine - Conformity judgment of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of Fisheries aboriginal
the price of the case , Anybody the to 99
business routine
the Senate . the Senate
the adjournment
use the the Rules
the Association Parliamentary Canadian of the NATO
the delegation Canadian , the session of the spring of the Assembly of the Atlantic North , held in Warsaw , in Poland - Report of the report
the strategies to the answer to the needs of the aboriginal the federal - activated
notice of inquiry
on business orders
the Senate . the Senate
the Committee of Selection
the Canadian the Prime report
the Canadian the second report
visitors in Gallery
transport and Communications
leave to the committee , to the application the in order to the Act , the Transportation the the Canada for herd the meeting of discussions on the proposal of buying the response Canada , the area private
business foreign
leave to the committee , to the new mandate of the Organization of the Treaty the the Atlantic North
motion of amendment
leave to the committee , to the consequences of the union monetary European
the Senate . the Senate
the Senate
the Thursday p.m. October 1998
the Chair . Chair . 9 at the the Speaker , the the Chair .
prayers .
the fishery and the Oceans
the provinces marine - Conformity judgment of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of Fisheries aboriginal
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I would ask the honourable show a little indulgents , the time that I one of " on the situation which has the in the area of the fishery on the West is the
the the past new , and I must confess that I am in either almost exclusively the the bulletins the press the the morning , the leaders seem to struggle to the Antarctic the 30 days that they had intended to meet .
the Canadian , the accountability upon the press the the debate , the in the " the other place yesterday evening , he seems that the Minister of the Fisheries , Mr. Dhaliwal , the summer the by surprise , this new , the as the government is maintained words startling , he is the four weeks , when the Court Supreme the the Canada has made his decision .
further , I , " , honourable senators , the " question . expert lawyer and the least , interpr?te the the judgment of the Court Supreme the the Canada , but the statement made by a the the leaders . morning , the reason , and his colleagues , reserving the right to regulate their own operations of Fisheries , is , the my humble opinion , contrary to the judgment the by the Court Supreme the the Canada .
in the decision majority , the Krever Binnie the state of the
... the scope limited to the right Grattan the the treaty .
he wrote : "
the right Grattan the the treaty . a right r?glement? the person , by regulation , the circonscrit the the limits update .
the the limits of the , the the would contribute to the northern the the the provinces allow the the families mi' kmaq the the government . Emphasizes deliberate the the standards of today , the ability to move the Order and collective , to heirs the the right Grattan the the treaty .
a monopoly regulation satisfy the right and extraterritorial not a terminal the should be valid following the standard established in the Supreme Badger .
honourable senators , he I would be the statements are a physician lanc?e by the Court Supreme the the Canada , the government to the the proposed a settlement .
when the Krever , refers to the Order , the the limits of captures and the the tax . a settlement , he is the place . assume that he says , a settlement the would put the the government .
he is the $ two weeks , the Prime Minister could the the the government removed the authority to the Court Supreme the surseoir the Hon. judgment .
the recent , the Minister of the Fisheries the in the way to the House of the Opposition the bogeyman the same thing .
i suppose that the government has examined and refused the option of the Canadian surseoir the the judgment and that this option . was pressure .
he I would then , the the the the rest of the " the government , the motion of the one of legislation or a settlement , or the two .
in addition , the government should consider the chamber , settlement in the direct the Canadian Court Supreme to ensure the the the the Senate . enjoyed with the judgment the by this last .
i doubt , the the aboriginal the provisional the least , it .
the important what the the will report be treaties doctor and will move the the whole of the process judicial .
i believe prudent that the government refer a monopoly regulation the Canadian Court Supreme the the Canada .
honourable senators , if I say that , the motion simply because the Canadian the the worsening the Order of the .
the front be alarmist , I think that we do we are too know , the Somalia violent the the are manufactured in the region and the " the eve of the devastating .
a vacuum legal , the fund .
the other . belief that gap created by the Court Supreme the the Canada and the " seems that takes will be the ugliness .
the price of the case , Anybody the to 99
the Honourable Catherine S . Callbeck :
honourable senators , I wish to the us Racial the Monday 18 October next , la the Canadian Human .
this is the 18 October 1929 that the Council Office British the foetus that the women were the the " and the in the Canadian and that they could the be ?lues the the Senate .
this decision has been made to the following the one long battle legal and political seeing the Faries marry , Nellie McClung , Aline McKinny , Irene Parlby and Henrietta Muir Edwards , five women Canadian better known as the the " Famous Five the .
since 1979 , in comm?moration the the case , Anybody the , the the price of the Governor General , Achievement each year , the outset of the 18 October to honour to the women who have selected contributed to the promotion of the wife .
i am proud of the knowledge , the honourable senators , a woman the Tignish , in 1982 , Prince Edward Island , Prince , Anne - Marie Captain , will include the five laur?ates the this year .
Anne - Marie is a person remarkable the operation of contributing active in the well - be the the community , the the province and the Hon. the .
this is the second wife , the Island , although it cost prestigious .
Helen Yeo , the Charlottetown , in 1982 , Prince Edward Island , Prince , the the previous Olympians , 1986 .
the the level provincial , it has repeatedly and seconded the the changes to Transfer , the Canadian dollar the opportunity to the women during his mandate of the and the chairman of the committee , the calls of the services social the the Island , Prince Edward Island , Prince .
the the level national , Dr. Captain the summer a member active the the Council Advisory Canadian of the situation . the wife , 1981 , 1986 .
four other women receive the same grandfather that Anne - Marie this year .
he is a the Mmes Bertha Allen , the Inuvik , in the Territories the the North - Western , Maris Eriksen , the Calgary , in Alberta , Enid Page , the Aylmer , the the Quebec and Bette Stephenson , the Richmond Hill , in Ontario .
honourable senators , the five laur?ates the the price of the Governor General of this year deserve the the congratulations to the remarkable work that they have done in their communities in the Canadian to date of the Canadian and women .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the Hon. the Speaker :
i add , for the information of the honourable senators , the Canadian Presented and the price of the Governor General , responding order to orchids Hall and that it is still followed the one dinner offered to the Senate by the Speaker of the Senate .
this year , he has been decided to present the price to Calgary because the the was in Alberta , habitaient the five women of the time .
the introduction will therefore the Monday next , Calgary .
i repr?senterai the Senate to the ceremony and all the honourable the wish to participate are extended .
if you French - the attempt details to the subject , please into the communication with my office .
business routine
the Senate . the Senate
the adjournment
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 58 ( 1 ) at ) the the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate . stand today , the the Senate to the traditional 2 November 99 , the 14 at the
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion ?
the Honourable Marcel Prud ' s
honourable senators , I do you favourable not my d?sarroi the " that debate extended .
we represent the only to get .
i would failure to the Senate seat the week next , if the other week .
i do understand that it . committees committees . the not have trained .
the the Senate agrees be a career , these various committee .
the committee , the Transportation and the the communication and the committee , the business foreign should sit today , the
use the the Rules
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs :
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
he not to a the not the one would the
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the leave the summer leave of making a motion .
the Honourable Marcel Prud ' s
this is exactly .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the Senate is before the Canadian motion .
i believe that , a time , leave granted , the motion ? to the subject of a debate .
i agree however , benefits , the motion of adjournment . " be considered .
the senator Kinsella :
he is a the one of the motion .
the Hon. the Speaker :
he is a the one would empower the clock the one date designated .
i do I do consulted the Rules , but because of leave the summer leave , I believe that the motion ? be considered .
the senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , we in this , the part of the Senate to the the opinion of Motion to the government .
a notice of Motion the summer , and the not be there have the debate .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the Senate . the Hon. the , the the repository the status of this motion .
he not to a more simply the one of the motion when the leave the summer leave .
however , the the , the Canadian and honest , I am prepared to take the question . little and the reporting a statement official .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I have heard the comments of His Honour and the other senators , I am pleased to hear , Senator Prud ' and the answer to his concerns , the motion that the
the senator Prud ' s
honourable senators , I do I do insisting the blood kindness .
i am short .
i can the make the the I conna?trai soon the Rules by individual and that we will therefore , the the discussions interesting to the future .
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , contrary to some , I do I do well . the time to the Rules and the House .
the answer to the comments of the senator Prud ' s , soulignerais . the first , the Senate . sat for two weeks recently , the years , both kindness weeks . the months of September .
the committee , the Senate had served during both weeks before this .
we have a working , but I do I do some of this concern the senator .
the senator Prud ' s
i will I .
the senator Hays :
the the the motion of the Senate . the Senate , our objective today , the the I speak at the the next item of the Order of the Order , the Canadian Airborne , the most efficiently possible , the two committees of the Senate , the the committee on the Canadian and Communications and the the communication and the committee on the Canadian and business foreign .
these chairs meet early the week next , they are created and constitu?s .
we reach a " the work in this vein .
the balance of the regions , the committee has always the the subject of discussions between the government and the Opposition .
he is the Canadian and the the need be debatable , and when I say that , the not . not as a sorry to a simple comment .
the example , I ' been a the position of Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate .
i do I do the the opportunity to speak to the statute the the committee , the honourable the the side - the Canadian the Senate .
he is the Canadian and the , the I prefer not . deal now , the will inevitably raised in the my buddy with the Opposition Deputy of the Opposition and with the other senators ,
i hope that the this period will used to the shareholders , the Canadian deal . the , to the " our back , we might in the Canadian make immediately to the vote for appointing the committee .
recognizing that we do . parvenions not , the Senate . help to deal . the .
however , we should be fully operational as the next , our back , and the committee will then , concerning , elected to the and evidence their first meeting .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , I am asking if I could take the honourable now .
this is a day unusual in the meaning that we do we not a the business . the Order of the Order .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the honourable senators consent - they , the the the Honourable Senator Hays take the honourable now ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Hays :
i wish to the the would constitute the the Rules and deal of the issues reach the the Order of the Jewish the Rapports the committee to the in the foundation the reports the the Committee of Selection , and then , the the Committee on the committee , the business foreign and the the committee , the Transportation of the motions the the elected .
the senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , the Opposition is that he is a the one good proposal and that we can proceed , when we complete the the Order of the Order .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , we , this manner when we complete the the Order of the Order ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Association Parliamentary Canadian of the NATO
the delegation Canadian , the session of the spring of the Assembly of the Atlantic North , held in Warsaw , in Poland - Report of the report
the Honourable Rompkey Rompkey :
honourable senators , I have the honour to table the Prime report of the Association Parliamentary Canadian of the NATO , the the represented the Canada in the Canadian session of the spring of the Assembly Parliamentary the the NATO the the motion held in Warsaw , in Poland , the the 27 extending May 1998 .
the strategies to the answer to the needs of the aboriginal the federal - activated
notice of inquiry
the Honourable Thelma J . Challifoux :
honourable senators , pursuant to the rule 57 ( 2 ) the the Rules , I give notice that , the Canadian next sitting of the Senate , I give the attention of the Senate on the strategies to the answer to the needs of the aboriginal the federal - activated .
on business orders
the Senate . the Senate
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , before the us emotions the the Order of the Order , I would ask , Your Honour , the us to the years , corners , the clarify the situation in the us we are either the early .
if I understand , the the Leader Deputy of the government has asked the authority to present a motion of adjournment .
this approval the summer leave .
then , the senator Prud ' s began to the debate , and some of the us . esteemed that he is a the one issue . making be considered , since the authority had been granted .
the motion . was moved , the us were to the " Minister contains the .
i do wish to debate . the motion today , the but we would be the power to send when the debate is the " the years of the period of the " Minister contains the , if the motion that he the motion .
the entire clearly , we know when he not the motion . .
i point that the in the hope that the the future , we do we not to lose the perspective of confusion that we represent the Province .
the Hon. the Speaker :
i thank the Honourable Senator Lynch - Staunton , raised the question .
i can the government that we are there attaquerons .
i have already asked to the staff of the the primacy the this regard .
this is a point of the us we know clear that the the in the , and I am demonstrated the us will this information to our back .
the Committee of Selection
the Canadian the Prime report
the Senate proceeded to the study of the Prime report of the Committee of Selection ( membership of the committee Standing the the Transportation and the the communication ) , the " the Senate . In October 1998 . - ( - ( Senator Jeffrey ) .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I move that the report be adopted .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion ?
the Honourable Marcel Prud ' s
honourable senators , if we had been going up the beginning of the UN the the senator Hays , I do have not have the subject .
he we , the exact the the I want to all the the not we , the not the " the displaced .
i have now , the the , the week next , the committee meeting .
i wish to the beginning today , the the committee , the Transportation and the the communication the the summer set yesterday audit the the election of the chairman and begin the Senate as the week next .
he is the Canadian and efficient court to meet the this very important issue .
i am not only call the the honourable the the Quebec , but also to those of the East the the Canada .
we reach very RCMP by the decision to be taken in the bill to Onex .
it is one . only the Quebec , I do I do paroissial .
i do I do the spirit of clocher .
i hope only the the committee . put to the Canadian job , the so that we can sit the week next to the power to a thing to say that the Canadian Court Supreme not proper a decision to be the have a the Act , stresses the response Canada .
the the , the one thing , should be the heart , the Liberal , the motion . Air Canada .
he was the surprised the have succeeded to do replace the name of the air strikes Trans - Canada , the Canadian Air Canada , a name of the by the following become famous in the world world .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is passed . )
the Canadian the second report
the Senate proceeded to the study of the second report of the Committee of Selection ( membership of the committee , the business foreign ) , the " the Senate . In October 1998 . - ( - ( Senator Jeffrey ) .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I move the adoption of the report .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the Honourable Marcel Prud ' s
i was new senator .
watch a moment , it is to the subject of debate .
i have a way of Senator the this auguste Dreadnought .
the my great surprise , one . is party .
this day - that , the the world . listened my interpretation of this section of the Rules .
i have said that the Committee of Selection not be not forget that he is the Canadian and senators , are concluded the the Senate in the hope the well as their country , including the house to the committee .
i prefer to the align? the .
the the moment , I favour stay the only align? the .
the problem . worsening , because he is the date five senators , are in the same in the the three are very involved , the work of the committee .
we do we not resolved the problem .
we want show the the world how operating a democracy .
we want to the guarantee the unity of the Canada .
we want to understand that the the " to Apply Nations , means .
we want appreciation of the respect to the minority religious and other .
yet , we do managing the not to decide . the the need to the five senators Laurier independent .
this is a shame .
the the in the " all kinds of stratag?mes , these six years in the to avoid the other a decision , but I am refrain the appointment of senators , the tremp? in the conceiving .
i do pretend not the the honourable not align?s the most of Rights , the honourable Staunton , Lynch , Kinsella and the other .
i preface by the the us in the so that the honourable Carstairs , Graham and the other .
we are all citizens , and the motion of opinion of the senator Atkins and especially the the senator Lynch - Staunton .
if the honourable are all citizens , they should be to the Canadian committees .
i do say that the the then they give them the choice .
i am prepared to accept that the not me , top not .
in private , the Canadian and people . face the .
i give now a notice , as the Rules the demands .
as Your Honour the record Devco , when I hear , some other , I move the the actions .
he is the $ 5 years , I have reminded the the committee . the the was spent .
this year , I have given my honourable the matters and the , the the Senate , the I do recommencerais not , the I do I l?verais not and that I do would not the speech .
i do indeed not the I have been failed , but contradicted .
i do so that the word that the only the Canadian , but that bring as the attention .
i had the question on the I do would not the speech . on the that , with thought that the us poursuivrions the Senate yesterday .
i trouvais that is the equitable and I have agreed .
let it is the motion of the
the Committee of Selection the beleaguered the members of two committees .
my remarks . improve one of the , but I , I have the the people who is destroying not exist - playing .
some will lose the credibility .
in the Communist the the Quorum the motion The yesterday , he is the one , sensationnel wrote the one woman that I know , the the years ; I wish to the one new senator , Dr. Finnerty .
in this section , it is that it is very proud of the summer appointed to the Senate because the it admire the work of the committee committees , the the reports iterations and ridiculous the in the derogate .
it reads , and other , the honourable Croll and Davey .
it is that the value of the Senate . in the the committee and the Canadian interparliamentary that he assure the best use of Canada .
you not bringing the the speech . " ; I begin to the have more than putting .
if the " request of the work for the government . the Quebec , I further .
i have another matter to do that the losing my time here .
i am time here because the I think that the Canada is the declining .
i am time because the I believe that we can walk the the rest of the world that we can do a difference .
i hates this hypocrisy the us . " that our country . the best of the world , the in emp?chant those who are loans to work of the in the the the the remaining .
i understand the First Nations .
this is the not the Quebec , will surprises the winds of our country , as is that this item a day .
we must be more attentifs the the needs of the First Nations .
i am very friend with the Nisga' the , in British - British , and I rise to defend the year , the us in talking here .
( 0950 )
honourable senators , the the motion ? the past , the traditional the ?
a careful the selection the summer set .
i have attended yesterday , the first meeting of the committee and I am feel the the the the committee tried to the not known too what do the the honourable independent , the the not me turn not so to the moment .
the members of the Committee of Selection can be a certain impact on the Senate that undertaking a senator to the years of the two years in the
he is a the one of a , since the in principle , these new senators earns the ones Committee meet some senators ,
i am I , the " the Chair of the committee , yesterday , see that a the the nine senators , away .
he was sent a replacement .
honourable senators , I do nommerai one .
you see that the ones the I am nomination , not . - that the ?
the honourable will be the conditions research to find the was in anticipation .
when a person accept a job , it is the work .
the women who heads the the Senate . poses that they remplissaient their duty . as the Canadian portion of the men the the Senate .
i am recall the the committee that the Egyptian the subamendment , the Canadian and former Veterans the February 1998 . Ni the Senate or the House of the House . sitting , the time , that the
three senators Liberal . attended the the deliberations of the committee , all of the women .
the leaders of the Senate . the same way a man to sit in the committee .
i could you quote , " to " , the the the Honourable Senator Carstairs , " to the question that I , I raised .
i would have asked : " Quels were the criteria remain ? "
it has said that it was the first , address the question of the regions of the women in a report that it was prepared to the Friends parliamentarians in 1993 . - Tabling the the time , caring only to mark .
the the subject , I remind the I have been replaced by the senator Finestone for some years .
however , I want to the opportunity to reintegrating my association hurling .
honourable senators , I do know that how do when the House will be made to the subject of these two reports .
each time that the honourable are interview?s the Canadian television or surveyed by a group of students , the press or other , the next , we ?
this is true , and I will be .
however , it should be lower in the facts .
i do believe that the Canadian clauses .
if a senator accept a position to the public . a committee , he or she would take the all the meetings down .
we do we not the the House are the said in the corridors : " Pr?sentez - you to the committee , today and , after the years of education , he is a one vote final the committee . "
they not know , not the Act , they will balances , but they l?vent the labour when their leaders l?vent the their .
they not know quite not the the the motion of the
honourable senators , the words , demonstrates the and the commitment to the " the way in our speech .
the the years of the two years weeks , let the thought the Canadian the the us will address the situation . the honourable independent .
if we do the work . , I cr?erai my own Committee of Parliament , the interested in the business international .
human not be the in current .
the Hon. the Speaker :
if no other honourable senator . I take the honourable , you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is passed . )
visitors in Gallery
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I draw your attention of the presence in the gallery of a delegation of the Senate . the Republic tch?que .
the the Hon. the
hear !
transport and Communications
leave to the committee , to the application the in order to the Act , the Transportation the the Canada for herd the meeting of discussions on the proposal of buying the response Canada , the area private
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . , pursuant to the opinion , the 1998 13 October 1998 , moved :
that , pursuant to the rule 47 ( 5 ) the Canadian Act , the Transportation the the Canada , the application tabled the this chamber , the 14 September 1998 , nowhere some carriers air enhancing and some people to negotiate and the agreements , with Earl , the reports to the committee on the Canadian and Communications and the the communication ;
that the committee based , and other witnesses , the Minister of the Transport and
that the committee be authorized to allow the premature Ministerial the the deliberations public ; and
that the committee , the report final the the most final 15 December 1998 .
he is the one referred to the committee .
the case afforded , I attempt to the changes to answer .
the Honourable Marcel Prud ' s
honourable senators , the names of the members of the committee , namely , the committee be now to a meeting of organization , the Canadian elected a chairman , the the coast to give the " the Order of Reference .
the Honourable Senator know , he when the committee will set and grants to both the Senate ?
he can now , to the the book .
this is precisely to this is the amounts income , for the the beginning of the Senate . the committee , the one led by the excellent the Canadian the committee , the business foreign and the - the , the Canadian Chair . is not yet determined .
the will it is a ?
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , the answer is simply yes .
i hear , the my best to the the committee . sitting to the privatization a chairman and that he entreprenne the Senate , the most later in the day , the chamber , the Canadian the week .
the " the fact out that , the the Canadian motion of 3:15 in both weeks , he was a motion to the the committee can sit during the the Senate is adjourned .
i will I , Anybody the Canadian reseller the Canadian the Canadian Presented and the motions .
( the motion is agreed . )
business foreign
leave to the committee , to the new mandate of the Organization of the Treaty the the Atlantic North
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . , pursuant to the opinion , the 13 October 1998 , moved :
that the committee on the Canadian and business foreign the power to examine the in the report of Korea to the Canada :
2 . the the peace - the peace , particularly the ability to the Canada . there to the the auspices of the important what body international the the Canada . the .
that the briefs received and the evidence heard the Canadian . the the committee during the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament be providing the the committee ;
that the committee be authorized to sit during the committee and the cong?s the the Senate ;
that the committee be authorized to allow the premature Ministerial the the deliberations public ; and
that the committee , the report final the the most final 18 November 99 .
the Honourable Marcel Prud ' s
honourable senators , the committee has played a role . important .
we know , the federal and the patience representing the the chairman , the senator Stewart .
i am sorry to learn that the - the us Doiron , November .
i wish to the the one another person charming that I know very well and that I have seconded the CHST the Secretary of the Liberal Party for the years 70 not to m?prenne not the my comments .
he is a the the senator Lewis .
when I have heard the interparliamentary the the public . a committee and the members of the targets in the m?l?e the Canadian last minute , I do thought not to the senator Lewis .
we know , the the senator Whelan we , Greg this was in the Canadian , retirement and that he has learned the headwind .
the senator Lewis , the us know , the intellect , the spirit thought and the federal , as the distinguished lawyer , the summer chosen to complete the work .
is why , now that I have phrase my personalities , I wish to rectify . the the I have been to the nice .
i do thought not to the Honourable Senator Lewis when I have heard the interparliamentary and the the replacement of the members of committees .
obviously , he was duly the senator Whelan , and the motion of Senator Lewis the the summer chosen .
all the other members of the committee remain in the , and I am in Glace deep .
if I had the part of the committee , I would enlighten the the senator Stewart the re the Canadian Chair , to the the so greatly the work , with the senator Andreychuk the Canadian chairman of adversity .
is why I have agreed Tuesday , not . to the honourable .
we have enough to the hundreds of thousands of $ in the committee to the the Secretary this study in our name of the I wish to the the all the honourable senators , let .
he I would quite natural that the members of the working in this study of those who remission the work .
i do know that how you do the things in English .
when I finish the the school , I was a in some persons , and bad in the other .
the " said that I excellais the philosophy , including the sense .
the senator Taylor not be not songs as the , I have the campaign to the so , for the worst year , his career , Alberta .
i can d?voiler here , Senator the all those who have provided to help .
the senator Taylor :
it breaks the point that the honourable you a be sound .
the senator Prud ' s
i thought you convertir the question sense .
i am delighted . the Canadian training the the committee .
obviously , I assisterai the most efficiently the the committee , the CHST voluntary .
honourable senators , I do I do the power or the gloatingly the giving the the advice to the committee , but I hope that is the will be the time to the , the motion of the difficult .
i hope that we do we not to ask , the the environment , November , a place extension the one another the , the will beginnings the zero .
i hope that the committee will be the time to the complete its work to the the Senate . the couronnement the the long years of service of the senator Stewart the the Senate .
the transition the work of the committee , I will I sought now to the the committee can the Whole today , the
i could speak to all the GST enrolled the the Order . morning .
we do we have the one session . 9 at the the I am almost the my best possible the morning , and I am in the " I better . later , last .
i wish to chance to the senator Stewart in the work in our name and I hope that the committee will the time , finish his work and the present the the Senate . the signing the the senator .
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
i believe that he is only makes the the rule that r?ins?r? in the mandate .
the committee has the Canadian and hearings , the years prompted the the course various officials of the government , he has met the the officers senior the the forces personnel , the some were in Bosnia , overall experts the the peace - the peace , the the historians , the Ambassador of the Canada , the NATO and many of the chamber , as civilian that they .
he has met the Secretary General of the NATO the the left the position recently and the other officers officials .
he has made great the research and given many of information , the Canadian taxpayers of help to the preparation of the report final .
the witnesses key to receive , the motion ? " - that the not have not pr?cis?s in the mandate , are the Minister of the Foreign Affairs , the Minister of the National Defence and the Opposition the state of Staff of the National , the are the witnesses that he would the most ambitious the suggested that the end of the the hearings .
i move that a subamendment , the I , will , much of support of the Senate .
he suivrait the rule 2 , the motion of the amounts before .
motion of amendment
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
the result , I move , seconded by the senator Kinsella :
that the committee based , and other witnesses , the Minister of the Foreign Affairs , the Minister of the National Defence and the Opposition the state of Staff of the National .
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud ( His Honour the chairman Acting Deputy :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion of amendment ?
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , the motion so that it was in the Canadian session 81 was quite aggressive , with the names of the ministers and the the other officers that the committee wants to the
these names not have not pr?cis?s in the motion presently the part of the Canadian the matter , the the committee for the report and the Canadian Availability of the ministers and the the other people being in the motion original .
i ?couterai carefully the arguments of the senator Stewart , but I believe that is the that the major reason for reasons , would the as it is the
the course , it is meant not the the committee . " no evidence . the and the other witnesses . the the wishes .
i do know too why the committee . the not have heard the people , if the not . the the Senate . was aborted by the prorogation .
i know what are the death of the committee .
i hope , as the the said , Senator Prud ' s , the committee eleven the senator Stewart as chairman .
i have found that the committee was the intent of scheduled the Senate as the day .
he is the very well , all the people Barbosa in the motion original that convoqu?es and heard .
he is the so , for the the reasons CPAs the Canadian political the the committee or the the Senate , the the people . the not available .
the following the the I understand the the Rules and the Senate , we have a problem , these people . the not been heard the 18 November , the " the date determined to the introduction of the report .
this is to this is the motion . was worded as it . is the
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , in the the mover of the motion key , I find that the amendment proposed am?liorerait this motion .
i will see a motion friendly .
it is beyond not the number of the the the committee can hear , but it forward , the side , hear , and other , the Minister of the Foreign Affairs , the Minister of the National Defence and the Opposition the state of Staff of the National .
the the the work subcommittee by the committee at the Canadian last session and the government . the quality of the work , I would the surprised that he not proper not necessary to hear , three of traffic for the complete its work .
i want to the with keen the suggested the senator Stewart .
the Honourable John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , the risk that the decision that will the committee to the subject of the Chair when he is signed not be a - be not fit .
however , exist that the the time .
i agree with the senator Lynch - Staunton , the committee has done a job extremely fouill? and valuable .
the work , the summer work , the years of the last session . certainly illuminated the need to hear , Minister of the Foreign Affairs .
he has neither , although the imp?rativement , the need to hear , Minister of the National Defence .
the same thing worth to the Opposition the state of Staff of the National .
otherwise , the I am fully the agreement with the substance of the motion of amendment of the senator Lynch - Staunton .
here . the reason for the the committee should be the three of the
the speech , the Throne , the the summer read the early this week , makes almost the committee to hear , ministers .
the government goes a vital increased to the safety human in his political foreign and the oeuvrera to the the representations numerous green the the progress enemies in the part of a phase international to the safety human .
we have already heard that the Canadian the Canadian the present Minister of the Foreign Affairs , but now , the motion of Gouverneure general , the said , the name of the government .
he is clear that the committee will entendreM. Axworthy when he , inevitably the this stage of the work .
a place ( the the speech , the Throne draw our attention , and I quote the new :
the government continue to the resulting the the the the Canadian Forces be in the Canadian support the role of the Canada for help to the safety in the world and the the efforcera the increase the ability to the Canadian and the the health of help to ensure the peace and the safety in the the country abroad .
he I would be the human that the committee be heard that the above is the Minister of the National Defence , the human occurrence the the Department .
i do see no how the committee can do the fault have heard the witnesses - and two ministers of the the least .
however , I do I do speak to the name of the committee .
i , just now , the point raised by the senator Hays .
what the the in the , the date of the 18 November found in the motion .
the problem which the leadership of the government to the Senate is effectively , the motion that the Senate might very well . find the one in contempt of the one of the one aspect tie and , the other hand , the insistance that three from the particular that reached .
if the motion of the , the matter should be considered as participants .
if the us will a big problem .
honourable senators , I think that the committee would be the the least two ministers , and probably the human the reason , the fact reference .
the my opinion , it is the no doubt .
the problem which we are facing is , the one some way , a problem of the , the knowledge : can the us the make the the time available ?
if this provision is Ramsay , he is very much that the committee will ask a extension - the significance of the 18 November .
is the situation is that I , appreciate .
the Honourable Nicholas W . Taylor :
honourable senators , I wish to a time to express my support the Canadian motion of amendment proposed by the other side .
the " the committee , virtually a report . the course , Minister of the Foreign Affairs , the Minister of the National Defence and the Opposition the state of Staff - the senator Stewart , the motion of old Scotians , will the agreement with me , would a little as eat the the gruau , sel .
i met opposed to bring this year , the intervention the the Kosovo , I believe that he is important that we reserve the border the subamendment , underlies our role in the business foreign and the border the right to the selfless in the future .
honourable senators , I have recently speech a speech , the name of the Honourable David Kilgour , Secretary of the motion America Latin and Africa ) , the one person of graduates the Science political , the Calgary .
Mr. . Kilgour I had the Canadian leave of anglophones my own thoughts .
i have made the freedom of the in the meaning of the comments accountable by the senator Stewart , the knowledge that the future will conditionn? . the by the safety personal or human that the Canadian Transportation national .
the most of the Oklahoma the are victimized the the years of the 20 years in the summer of the Oklahoma civilian and the Canadian and conflict between the .
this is almost as a judicial the board , in the meaning that we are buying the make to our soldiers .
in the case of the Kosovo , what kind of sense the horrendous the commitment to our forces personnel to bomb the the women and the the children innocent , the the only the the one country . elected the bad one of lead the government ?
i know that I take the the opportunity to reopen the matter of the Kosovo , and I do I , regarding the .
however , the so I do I do member of the committee , the business foreign , I do attend the few committee and questions of the issues . the various witnesses .
in the case of a subject . important that the sending the our military to do the the inevitable the police . the approval of the Parliament , why it is that the the not to the subject of a review thorough ?
the date limit the the 18 November . " artificielle .
i support of the heart of Motion to vote .
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I believe that the motion of amendment lend the committee , because it t?moignerait the Canadian political the the Senate . encourage the ministers of the present the the committee .
i understand perfectly that he can be difficult to a chairman of the " and premiers of the evidence , in the Canadian and employment of the time as the but if it found in the mandate of the committee , it conferred the Canadian authority to the chairman .
if the to a reason imp?rative , a minister or the Opposition the state of Staff . could appear before the committee , as we have the intent of the Process the the make , he decide to the committee , determine what the the bidding the make the the time , that the
will be back to a extension of our office or we , we lib?r?s the this requirement for the tabling of our report ?
i believe that is the so that he is another the problem .
he is the the the words in which the mandate is proper I River , because they vertically the Canadian authority to the chairman .
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , after the subjects the debate , we , the the side - the , tabling the amendment allowing the the committee , hear , and witnesses .
as the Canadian date of closer the the report , in the the chairman of Committee , I do I have had the difficulty the back to the the Senate . extension of the time frame to deal of a question of the committee was the matter , and I am sure that he , will the to the committee , the business foreign the the the need to a extension .
the Honourable Marcel Prud ' s
honourable senators , we are dealing in the same in the in 1984 , when the government has wanted create a Institute to the peace and the safety .
the the world said that is the total contempt .
many were against the creation of a monopoly institute because the , twice - they , the was a gift of the to the Prime Minister Trudeau .
i do I do the agreement .
the the time , I was president of the committee , the Defence down and the the business External the Canadian House of the House and we had 30 , the purpose .
we have worked , the critical .
the that , I hear , if we approach that our task is important , we fly the the members of the committee , working , often .
he not there has nothing to better to ensure the interparliamentary that the Senate five days , weekly .
if the committee . " that the time to other , we know , experience that he not be not the time , to the the the the right to the , including write the report .
the gloatingly not . not the one of my attributes , and I am garderais , the make the lesson .
the Canadian Chair of the Honourable Senator Stewart , and the concentrant the services , the committee could sit during the day and to produce and lower all the various documents the night .
with the Canadian political , I am sure that he will be the the senator Lynch - Staunton has asked and the the the senator Stewart attempted work .
however , the the not sitting , both or three days , even two , the afternoon by week , the motion impossible .
no . we being of getting a Monday , in the - afternoon or in terms .
i wish to the " respect to respond to the the report the the name of the senator Stewart .
if we do managing not to meet the matter , we can always does the " the repousse .
if we want to a thing . co of the hands , he would be , in the extent of the possible , the make releases the report , the date meeting .
this is the the in the last point that the " should consider the authority , extension of the matter .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
honourable senators , I ask the leave of the Canadian new the honourable the the subject .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
i thank the the senator Hays the region . support of the party to this motion of amendment .
he fewer , I believe , the the ministers and the Opposition the state of Staff of the National the r?jouiront the power appear before the committee .
he is a that the one substantive martyrdom the party the , the legal the help the Canadian , that the new NATO , the place . the Canada in this organization , and the plight if we begin to the resources highway to respond to the obligations taken in order to the new NATO , the the ground . the opportunity and the one of the different by the " is that they the most of the us .
the Kosovo not the summer the one example of this .
the other examples follow the - be , and they arise the be more worse .
the Canada is that what the the case in the new NATO .
i have a hope that the ministers and the Opposition the state of Staff of the National accueilleront Right the opportunity to us to the point of the Canadian the government , the the person to promoting to the Canadian soil the the report that many of people , the the Canada and the , expect impatiemment .
the discussions that I have conversations the the comments to the foreign I , 13,000 .
the study help the Canadian many countries , small the other places .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
honourable senators , the Honourable Senator Lynch - Staunton , seconded by the Honourable Senator Kinsella , moved that the existence the motion in limbo the the following after the rule No. 2 :
that the committee based , and other witnesses , the Minister of the Foreign Affairs , the Minister of the National Defence and the Opposition the state of Staff of the National ;
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the the amendment ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
the vote the date on the motion key .
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion amended is agreed . )
leave to the committee , to the consequences of the union monetary European
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . , pursuant to the opinion , the 13 October 1998 , moved :
that the committee on the Canadian and business foreign the power to study and the make the Act , affected to the Canada . the entrepreneurial the the Union monetary European and the Canadian and concerns related to the Canadian trade and the investment ;
that the briefs received and the evidence heard the Canadian . the the committee on the Canadian and business foreign during the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament be providing the the committee ;
that the committee , the report final the the most final 15 December 1998 ; and that the committee divested the powers necessary to the premature the the results of the study contained in the report final and the date , the 24 December 1998 ; and
that the committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practical consequently , the table the report of the the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate . " no , and that obedience report be deposited have been tabled the the Senate .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Senate . the Senate
leave to the committee , si?gerpendant the sittings
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 58 ( 1 ) f ) the the Rules , I move :
that , for the length of the present session , the committee particular will the Whole for the sittings of the Senate .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate . adjourned . the traditional 2 November 99 , the 14 at the motion
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 4
the traditional 2 November 99
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the dumping
visitors in Gallery
Maxwell Tabled '
the Late the Greg Moore
tribute
the Late the Mwalimu Julius K . Nyerere , Ancien the Canadian the Republic Unie the Tanzanie
tribute
the months of the history of the women
the political the the tax on the income being the the amounts of lots lots
the Late the Claude Masson
tribute
the Defence down
the recognition of the inevitable the peace - the peace , the foreign
the Official Languages
postponement of the date of the tabling of the report annual the the commissioner
the spot the traffic the ones human
the birthdays of the osteoporosis
business routine
the commissioner to the protection of the life private
tabling of the report annual
the Clerk of the Senate
tabling of the accountability annual
business foreign
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
the consequences of the Union monetary European
introduction of the report of the committee , the business foreign asking the authority to engage the the staff
business foreign
the Committee of Selection
introduction of the third report
the Clerk of the Senate
referred to the accountability annual the the committee , the Economy Economy , the the Economy , the the board
the adjournment
the speech , the Throne
the question . response to - end of the debate on eighteenth on the Chair of Inquiry - Motion
the bill to the border judicial
bill to the Second - First Reading
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
first Reading
bill to the Canadian 99 to the implementation of the Canadian taxation tax
first Reading
bill to the Act , perquisitions and the saisies international
first Reading
the Act , the Parliament of the Canada
bill to the Second - First Reading
the Code offence
bill to the Second - First Reading
bill to the Act , Assent Royal
first Reading
the Act , the Immigration
bill to the Second - First Reading
the Code offence - Act , the system Correctional and the implementation of freedom the condition
bill to the Second - First Reading
the Senate
tabling of the report of the delegation of the Senate . Republic Kirghize
business foreign
notice of Motion to the cultivation the committee to engage the the staff
notice of Motion to the cultivation the committee to allow the premature Ministerial the the Senate
the Canadian the political Canadian antidrogues
notice of Motion During the formation of a committee on Special
the Evolution and the marketing
notice of inquiry
the Canadian the Act , the Canadian protection of the Environment
notice of Motion
the Canadian specifications the the Environment to the children
notice of Motion constitutive
the Defence down
notice of Motion to the Canadian a committee on Special responsible for the Canadian conduct of the staff to the years of the mission , Somalia and the destruction of issues medical the the staff , whatever the Croatia
the funding of the post post
notice of inquiry
the Conference on the equality of the women and their involvement the Canadian life public
notice of inquiry
the Canadian distinguished and their role in the U - Parliamentary
notice of inquiry
the access to the data the the census
introduction of Petitions
the Senate . the Senate
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Agency Canadian of the Customs and the the income
the changes to the benefit tax national to children , - effects on the licensing
the United Nations
the disarmament nuclear - Government Policy the the government side , the resolution of the York Agenda Coalition
the Defence down
the replacement of the helicopters Sea King
the West Power Power Regiment - Government appointment of a Colonel honorary
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis crop to the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan - Government visit the Canadian delegation to Ottawa - Effect anomalies in the statistics
the crisis crop to the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan - Effect representations made to the Prime Minister
the crisis crop to the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan - Conformity effectiveness of the program of the in the Canadian origin related to the income crop
the crisis crop to the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan - Government visit the one delegation to Ottawa - Effect anomalies in the statistics
the crisis crop to the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan - Effect impact economic the Canadian drop of the income crop
the crisis crop to the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan - Government Position of a program of credit crop
library of the Parliament Langues official due to the regulatory
the committee abiding standing - Message the the Commons
the statement of the Speaker on the licensing of a leave to the years of the business contains and the the event of the 14 October 1998
on business orders
the speech , the Throne
motion of the Canadian the Adresse the answer to Continued the the debate
bill to the chronic the decision of some decisions medical
second reading of Second the the debate
the strategy of the housing for the aboriginal
inquiry - Adjourned the the debate
the Senate
the traditional 2 November 99
the Chair . Chair . p.m. at the the Speaker , the the Chair .
prayers .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , before the move the the statements of senators , I wish you wish to make the country gallery of some visitors in Gallery .
he is the Canadian first , delegation of the Assembly national the Canadian Republic of Slovenia , led Mr. Janez Podobnik , the Canadian the Assembly national , and send the Governor Slav Bozo Cerar , Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia the the Canada .
the the name of all the honourable senators , I would wish to welcome to the Senate . the Canada .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the other visitor the Gallery the country gallery today , is the senator Lynch Watson the Australia , the Canadian the committee on Special the the pension of retirement .
you are the Pearson to the Senate , the senator Watson .
the the Hon. the
hear !
Maxwell Tabled '
the Late the Greg Moore
tribute
the Honourable Ross Fitzpatrick :
honourable senators , I rise to speak today , for the honour ?Greg Moore , the coureur automobile the 24 years , is death Sunday afternoon . the one incident with his voiture the Canadian a race , boom .
Greg is unborn and the aspirations the Maple Ridge , in British - British , and the was a the the best Pilots the Canadian series CART or the the run automobile Indy .
in 1997 , the the age of 18 years , he has been the most young pilot the devastated a race , technical CART .
unfortunately , the Canadian and perspectives the tens the the .
Greg option , the the Longboat the Canadian n the success . " the community .
he Moon the Canadian many events of affordable and the was a Father advocate of various causes .
the enthusiasm in the Corel was real .
a fund to the name continue to come to help to the Depression that he felt .
honourable senators , the Canadian . the not prepared to forget Greg Moore .
the Late the Mwalimu Julius K . Nyerere , Ancien the Canadian the Republic Unie the Tanzanie
tribute
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , in 1966 , the " had offered the position of Deputy - dean of the school of the Canadian Dar champion - Salaam , in Tanzanie .
i had refused the offer , pr?f?rant stay the the Canada , I am become associated the the public . the most of cabinet the lawyers the Canadian initiatives Atlantic .
if I had accepted the position , Tanzanie , I would have the witness leading the the miracle democratic orchestr? by Julius Nyerere , the the appropriateness the country . the independence , the affranchissant the the honorary the liberal , and the vice the Prime the Canadian the Tanzanie , the 1962 , 1985 .
Mr. . Nyerere was much and v?n?r? across the the world to the integrity , his shy and the intellect .
he was considered as the one of the most great men and the Canadian the Africa , the the same as the Nelson Mandela , and the fact among the most important leaders of the century century .
Mr. . Julius Nyerere the one training the enseignant .
he is out in politics in Brown and the fonda the TANU , the the union national African the the Tanganyika .
he is much Minister of the when the TANU remporta the election of 1960 .
Mr. . Nyerere became the Minister when the Tanganyika acc?da the the independence , in 1961 , but it d?missionna as 1962 to the focus on the restructuring of the TANU and the the role that he would look by the following .
he became the Canadian a r?publique , the election of 1962 .
the the matrimonial Nyerere someone the bombing of the United African , the Tanzanie servit the blind the the members of the Congress national the Africa and the Canadian many other groups dirig?s by the the rebel the the Zimbabwe , the the Mozambique , the the Angola and the the Uganda .
Nyerere was a defender advocate of the culture African local , and his pose the most miraculeuse was the giving the Canadian Tanzanie the union ethnic .
the the opportunity to a repository the Nyerere in the part of the bond the As Time Happens the , specialty Lewis , the the issue with the United Nations in Africa and the was a friend of the former chairman , the motion that ?merveill? the Canadian the the Nyerere the way a country Physicians the the Small unfashionable and the fact , all of the " Tanzaniens the .
he is the past , strong the base systems the education and the health and the awesome a language common .
he was crushed by the consequences of the division ethnic : the massacres and the destruction of a public and the one country .
when Nyerere speaking of the catalogued and option of the assistance to his people , he spoke to many of emotion , the pain and the understanding to the
the examples was the the vision and the Hon. leadership , the Tanzanie would have known of the horror similar .
the 20 October , the the hundreds of thousands of Tanzaniens the Belgian the affluer the the direction in the streets of the capital Dar champion - Salaam to the matter of the honour to a man , the " Gang across the Tanzanie " to enseignant . "
the the cheering huge , but nonetheless harshness , bordaient the road Work the the Pearson to the comparative Mr. Nyerere origins in the banlieue and g?missaient the the spark of the cercueil .
Julius Nyerere the in the " the the funeral the state in Tanzanie the Thursday 21 October .
this was a man , the vision and the the principles outstanding the miss the Canadian many people .
honourable senators , Mary Lou Findley the well summary the situation . the end of the honour the by the training English - CBC - Canada . " that if Nyerere just the one little country , the not the course not a little colourful .
i support the last point of Stephen Lewis , the the said that Julius Nyerere was the one man . " the pleasant the .
the months of the history of the women
the Honourable Lucie pin :
honourable senators , October is the birthdays of the history of the women .
this is a good to the coast to progress progress and the indicated the obstacles that he we have the dark .
we are very ways to the " Famous Five the the people led a long and waiting fight the view of the country presence in the House possible .
he is the date 70 years , we have earned the right to be addressed as the the people .
the the I do I proceed not to the the the " It that we were before the us devenions the the people , I know , the be a person . the not yet the same size that the one man .
the number of women revitalizing in this chamber and the the other place . the I , lies the recognition and the telephone .
they determination , and will , and intelligence and their minds are the the apports immense to our country .
yet , how forget that we are still , the ?
in this chamber , our colleagues masculins continue to us 2003 the number , the reason , both the one .
the in the looks of the fact that the Senate . the Canada , the fifth of the world to the the motion of the regions retreat , we do we would not we talk of the state of the the things .
he remains the many obstacles to the participation of the women in the so many facets the country life economic and political .
i have talked the different time , in this chamber and the , the difficulties concerning the women are confront?es when they will undertake to politics .
yet , the one representation get the the women and the the other groups in our institutions political , how can the us we targuer the democracy ?
therefore , the the time when we celebrate this success essential that the summer the case , one of the first , the it has signalled to the the generations of Canadians , sachons that we do we not yet billion , and the
if the five Carlos militantes were with us , they continueraient the the fight for the equality .
the the , today , the , we do the the differences between the people : the the men and the women , and the rich and the poor , and the young and the old , and the majority and the minority .
the the numbers the the members of this chamber and those of the other place continue to engage the Ordre , the " the Order the us tabling the fact that a person is a person and nothing to other , or more or less .
the political the the tax on the income being the the amounts of lots lots
the Honourable Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators , I wish attention your attention of the concerns of the amounts Canadian of lots lots the the respect to the political the the tax on the income and the Canadian need , in their public , the changes in the best attempt to change documentation the Canadian law .
in my province , the New - New , a family , six is universal the one seemed bois? .
about 425 $ lots lots the the Canada resources to the the families .
in many of the , the motion of these lots that sentence a part important to the dumping first to the make turn the soft and the targets the p?te the paper .
the most of the amounts of these lots coast to land , they smoke due to only because the it helps to embellir the loss and the use of habitat the the cash poses , but also because the it provides the the lumber the the industry and provides the the jobs in the small communities rural .
the field of these lots lots is a job monumental .
the heights a tree the basis of a plant made huge the time , the the least 40 years in the most of the regions of the country .
the one of the ways , the government , the occasional the promotion and the strengthening of the activities of Lower exporting is the ports , the political the tax on the income .
when the Canadian publicity the the money for output a new leadership , they can the first years d?duire the losses the people , held in income in the extent the people can prove to Revenue Canada . the the urgently the Canadian and the profits reasonable to the their new business .
the amounts of lots lots , they , not have not the make .
when a youth crop what the one generation to a place , the tax on the fight the capital . stands as the Canadian family trauma the hard .
when a seemed bois? what the one dispose the one another the other , the tax to pay . " huge .
if the new dispose not limit not the income for seed the tax . the , he can be forced to make the money need to the Editor , the the well often meant that he must cut the treeless .
( 1420 )
why treatment the the amounts of lots lots a single different the one which have a the other Canadians ? - something . held , I would be , by the fact that the wording of the Act , the tax on the income is such as a business of anyone until the 40,000 years , moves the the returns waved simply of the mailles the the net .
the by the wording present , the Act , the tax on the income . " no to the Canadian and costing the the practical the Canadian and despair and the the normal to the the one mine may fully the the returns .
the Friends of owners of lots lots examining the question for 1988 .
they might be the methods the the change the reason they have been facing the Canadian and / years . the place , the the Department of the Finance and the the Department of the error national , the one understanding reasonable the the problem .
the question . was duly considered by different committees of the House of the House , by the NRTEE workshop national the the Environment and the economy and , recently , by our own , the committee studying the study of forest bor?ale .
honourable senators , he we must have the cooperation the the amounts of lots lots if we want to the commitments that we have made in the Kyoto the Kyoto and the the bill announced the legislation on the cash in calling the the Canada , and their to a political tax based , the the patient to reboiser their land and the remaining the efforts to the managing their land .
he is a time that we confront . problem .
i ask urge the the Minister of the Finance . lead to the the bill .
the Late the Claude Masson
tribute
the Honourable Fernand Roberge :
Claude was a man than the well in his peau , and the right mood and respected by the cautious .
he was also a man of faith , committed socially , a professional , short , a man copy .
the beginning . the great loss for - Presse and the environment journalistic Quebec , and that the Canadian society in general .
we offering our sympathy to his family and the the families of the other noble in the terrible accident .
the Defence down
the recognition of the inevitable the peace - the peace , the foreign
the Honourable Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , I have found strange that , the Canadian , first visit official the the Canada , Lord George Robertson , the new secretary general , the NATO , vision the Estimates military the the Canada , the the ignorait apparently that the troops Canadian , used to conflict of the peace in the world . the most many of the not the people were been the war the Korean .
the forces Canadian of peace - the peace rely among the most pr??minentes and the most effective , the world .
in the months of November , recognizing - in the matter tribute to the " and 108 Canadians who have lost the life in sombreros the safety and the peace international the the years of the 40,000 over the .
they contribution to the soulagement the Canadian suffering human is invaluable .
the Canadian know that the peace - the peace is a protracted esteemed of our country .
we must be that the our forces personnel play a role is in the promotion of our interests of the foreign , what the Senate . the the us to d?finissons .
working in the the conditions astreignantes d?passant . the the " may be armed and ports , and family , the very long periods , the members of the forces Canadian of peace - the peace are flags in the Canadian tobacco is the things and the resulting the Canadian promotion and the the peace - a real security .
the the Canadian . the Montfort and the dead to defend the safety and the freedom .
our efforts continuels the view of the Canadian Transportation in the world are a repository the their sacrifice and affirm this man tradition .
our forces the peace - the peace . deserve not least .
honourable senators , for the the motion of the fund spent in the legendary in the Balkans , the Canadian War . the left the devastation , and the Canadian and regions of the world , the need to put the the consequences of the war , the Canada . the " receive the lessons of the .
in the operations of pioneering , the not . not the the Canada spent too little , the motion that the other countries , there was the major country . the NATO , spend too .
the Official Languages
postponement of the date of the tabling of the report annual the the commissioner
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , the 4 October the , the commissioner to the Official Languages presiding , in a letter expressed to our chairman , the intent of opposing the tabling of the report annual , the manner in cover multilateral the period correspondent the the year tax than that the the year civil .
the Act , the Official Languages not . not clear on the guideline of the tabling of the report annual .
however , the article 37 the Canadian Act , section carried the Canadian concept of the the spread the entire the Canadian 12 months .
this decision imposing the communities language minority and the committee Joint Committee of the House of the House and the the Senate . the Official Languages the one of the Canadian a tool . asset and very important .
the spot the traffic the ones human
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , everywhere in the world , the the people . the lobbying , contraindre , catch and sell in the part of the the " what populairement the " covers World of the esclaves the .
the victims are usually of the women , the the girls and the the boys the are forced to live in the the situations the seaway sexual and economic , the Universit the recruteurs , the trafiquants and the organizations worldwide .
in 1997 , the United averted valued million the number of the people who were injured the one knowledge traffic the the international World , the the benefit net could achieve 7 billion . $ by the .
the Canada . is not to the homeless the types of the
the fall the , the the ground to Toronto , transport and prostitution , and other , set of women Asian .
the traffic the ones human , the same that the many activities of the Adieu the kind of Organized , as the sex , the s?questration and the mother , are all of the activities ill?gales the the Canada .
despite the conventions international prevented the issue of the esclaves human , the kind of activity officers is the increase .
it is occurring in the because the the motion respect easy to do the traffic the ones human .
many , the people in the subject of NAV not to realize not the the provinces are in danger and traversent 4,000 the border to enter the one another country .
he is less likely that the RCMP the Canadian peace their the the incidents in the case of NAV the ones human that the the case of cigarettes the drug and the weapons the gun .
he is tragic the plight that the great , the the " the Canadian and youth assure a request Increase to do the new recruits the the women , young and the children .
the traffic the ones human , a danger to the safety , because of natural progress of the the seaway the ones human used often to fund the organizations worldwide .
in Asia , in the region . the M?kong , the traffic the the ones human rivalise now , the with the traffic the drug the the most of the spot organized .
the same , in the other regions instables , as the the former Union Soviet , the women and the children are particularly vulnerable to this regard .
the Canada is working in office some organizations of the use of the Canada as the one of the collection of the to the funding of the convergence .
in 1949 , the Assembly general , the United Nations approuvait the Convention for the thickets and the removal of the issue of the ones human and the the seaway the Canadian prostitution the repository .
the Canada . the ever not ratified this convention in spite of the fact that it be coming to effect , 1949 .
in June 2000 , the Journ the fifth anniversary of the Declaration of Beijing .
the one of the objectives strategic the the Program of action . Beijing is the clean the issue of the women and the help the victims of the violence properly the Canadian prostitution and the Canadian sufferers .
he is essential that the Canada considering the Inter and the ports that convention international .
lack of what the the Canada manquerait the the commitments to the respect to the United Nations and , the most is , manquerait the the commitments to the respect to the $ the people who are in danger .
i urge the government . the Canada and the honourable the look at the the the Canada enters this convention before the fifth anniversary of the Declaration of Beijing .
the birthdays of the osteoporosis
the Honourable Vivienne Poy :
honourable senators , November . the birthdays of the osteoporosis the the Canada .
the osteoporosis is a medical d?bilitante caract?ris?e by a low adequate expensive , the theory a more , fragilit? the the physical and the the risk of osteoporosis .
the fact that this disease the dynamic the the people seniors the Canadian and consequences serious to our country .
about 1.4 million . Canadians suffering now , Research and 2 million . the murder of the be achieved a day .
the osteoporosis Strike a woman the four of the GIS years and a man on eight in the same group of age .
the treatment of the osteoporosis costs 1.3 billion . $ by year , the Canada .
the education and the prevention can do a difference conviction in the the concerns of osteoporosis .
in the Canadian the lack of awareness and the education public , and the people learn that they are achieved the osteoporosis when he is already enough later .
the reduction of the prevalence expensive the product defensive the the years of the years , the prior to become apparent .
when a fracture the product , the difficulty . , thrown and the the lower by the the l?sions the Canadian generals vert?brale , the Canadian hanche or the the poignet .
the osteoporosis is almost , irr?versible .
the osteoporosis ost?oporotiques are generally d?bilitantes and subsequent greatly the quality of life of the people affected .
today , the us in unknown , the ever the Canadian prevention of the osteoporosis , a medical considered in the world world as a significant problem of health .
we declare the the physical strong as the first years of the life is a the the things , the important that we can do .
he is also important to us to the have enough to calcium in our system Article , the same that the make regularly the the fiscal , particularly the the sports the implementation of benefits as the relative , the leadership , the Bassett and the badminton .
he is now , the tests the basis of Screening retreat the the people to be .
we can offset significantly the number of the the d?velopperont the osteoporosis , we take the the government . prevention and the turn .
the Canada is to the Canadian leadership in ?laborant a part exhaustive the prevention , the reporter and the treatment of this disease incapacitante .
the kind of leadership the I speak . consistent the Canadian strategy stated in the speech , the Throne , the months , the and Engage the creation of instituts Canadian of research , health .
these instituts improve the Whole the the researchers the the interested in the health and the establishing of the priorities , the Canadian research joint .
the osteoporosis is available among our priorities , the Canadian research , health , we want image the quality of life of the Canadian , the the most of ageing the Canadian public , the years of the next decades .
the rate of osteoporosis the be significantly reduced if we envisageons the the government . prevention the long term .
honourable senators , to the increase the turn to this important issue of health , I would urge all , and that our colleagues , the House , the other the th? with me and the representatives of the Corporation of the osteoporosis the the Canada , tomorrow afternoon , afternoon , and 16 at the 18 at the in the room 237 - C - the Victoria the the Centre .
business routine
the commissioner to the protection of the life private
tabling of the report annual
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I have the honour to table the report annual the the commissioner to the protection of the life private to the period , laid 31 March 1998 .
the Clerk of the Senate
tabling of the accountability annual
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I have the honour to you tell the , pursuant to the article 133 the the Rules and the Senate , the Clerk of the Senate . They the the Transportation a state detailed the the revenues and the the cash to the fiscal fiscal 1998 - 99 .
business foreign
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
the Honourable John B . Stewart :
( the text of the report found to the Journals of the Senate . today , the motion
the consequences of the Union monetary European
introduction of the report of the committee , the business foreign asking the authority to engage the the staff
the Honourable John B . Stewart , the Canadian the committee on the Canadian and business foreign , the the report following :
the traditional 2 November 99
the Committee on the Canadian and business foreign the the honour to present its
REPORT REPORT
your Committee , the the summer authorized by the Senate Thursday p.m. October 1998 , pursuant to the article 86 ( 1 ) at ) the the Rules , the study and the make the Act , affected to the Canada . the entrepreneurial the the Union monetary European and the Canadian and concerns related to the Canadian trade and the investment the respectfully that the Committee be authorized to withhold the services of lawyers , the councillors technical and the first , staff necessary to the the purpose of the inquiry .
under the the article Guidelines the the Procedural Guidelines the funding of the Comit?s the the Senate , the budget presented the the Committee on the Canadian Economy Economy , the the Economy , the the board , the the report . there germane , are appended to the present report .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
JOHN B . STEWART
( the text of the Journals found to the Journals of the Senate . today , the Journals the A . , appendix
72 )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Stewart , the study of the report is placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
business foreign
the amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty the the Atlantic North - Introduction of the report budget of the committee on the study
the Honourable John B . Stewart , the Canadian the committee on the Canadian and business foreign , the the report following :
the traditional 2 November 99
the Committee on the Canadian and business foreign the the honour to present its
third REPORT
your Committee , the the summer authorized by the Senate Thursday p.m. October 1998 , pursuant to the article 86 ( 1 ) at ) the the Rules , the review the in the report of Korea to the Canada :
the Canadian amendment brought to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty the the Atlantic North ( NATO ) and the the role of the Canada in the NATO been the disbanding of the tremendous the Warsaw , the Canadian reseller the Canadian War cold and the the coming recent in the NATO the Canadian Hungarian , the Canadian Poland and the Canadian Republic tch?que ; and
2 . the the peace - the peace , particularly the ability to the Canada . there to the the auspices of the important what body international the the Canada . the , the respectfully that the Committee be authorized to withhold the services of lawyers , the councillors technical , the other personnel necessary to the and the the place to adjourn the Canada and the the foreign to the purpose of the inquiry .
under the the article Guidelines the the Procedural Guidelines the funding of the Comit?s the the Senate , the budget presented the the Committee on the Canadian Economy Economy , the the Economy , the the board , the the report . there germane , are appended to the present report .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
JOHN B . STEWART
( the text of the Journals found to the Journals of the Senate . today , the Journals the B . , appendix
78 )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Stewart , the study of the report is placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
the Committee of Selection
introduction of the third report
the Honourable L?once Jeffrey , the Canadian the Committee of Selection , the the report following :
the traditional 2 November 99
the Committee of Selection the the honour to present its
third REPORT
under the the GST 85 ( 1 ) , " and 85 ( 2 ) the the Rules and the Senate , your Committee informed the Senate that he is the Whole to discuss the Canadian appointment of a senator to the position of Speaker in the lengths .
your Committee . the not taken the decision to the subject and the will report , the Senate certified .
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Jeffrey , the study of the report is placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
the Clerk of the Senate
referred to the accountability annual the the committee , the Economy Economy , the the Economy , the the board
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
the adjournment
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 58 ( 1 ) at ) the the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate adjourns today , the the remaining adjourned until the near , the 1998 3 November 99 , the 13 at 1:30 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
the speech , the Throne
the question . response to - end of the debate on eighteenth on the Chair of Inquiry - Motion
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the 1998 3 November 99 , I move :
that the deliberations to the Order of the Order of the Honourable the the debate on the motion Honourable the the adoption of a Adresse the answer to the speech , the Throne , rendered by His Excellency the Gouverneure general the the two Houses of the Parliament , the completion the eighth on the Chair the the Order will have debated .
the bill to the border judicial
bill to the Second - First Reading
the Hon. the Speaker informed that he has received the the Commons . message informed the the bill to the C - 7 , the Act , the Act , lots judicial and a place . in determining .
( the bill to the motion read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . second time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Hays , the second reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the Thursday 4 November 99 . )
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
first Reading
the Hon. the Speaker informed that he has received the the Commons . message informed the the bill to the C - 6 , the motion to facilitate and the use of Trade Ministerial the virtue of information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of the coverage to bring or put the the information and the the sophisticated and the Act , the Act , and the the Canada , the Act , the Statutory Instruments and the Act , the review of the legislation
( the bill to the motion read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . second time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Hays , the second reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the Thursday 4 November 99 . )
bill to the Canadian 99 to the implementation of the Canadian taxation tax
first Reading
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . the the bill to the S - 4 , the Republic of the one would , the the conventions and the the protocoles agreements of the Canada and the Kyrghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgarian , the Portugal , the Ouzb?kistan , the Jordan , the Japan and the Luxembourg , in the Canadian avoid the Republic Republic and the prevention the avoidance tax . the Canadian tax on the income .
( the bill to the motion read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . second time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Hays , the second reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the Thursday 4 November 99 . )
bill to the Act , perquisitions and the saisies international
first Reading
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin , the bill C S - 4 , the Tobacco the authority judicial pre the the CCN the perquisitions or the saisies the the foreign the the Canada , the representations to a company or authority foreign or international .
( the bill to the motion read a first time .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . second time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Nolin , the second reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the Thursday 4 November 99 . )
the Act , the Parliament of the Canada
bill to the Second - First Reading
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein , the bill C S - 5 , the Act , the Act , Parliament of the Canada ( poet official of the Parliament ) .
( the bill to the motion read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . second time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Grafstein , the deuxi?melecture the the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the jourdu Thursday 4 November 99 . )
the Code offence
bill to the Second - First Reading
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , I have the honour to present , the the reading of the first Reading , the bill to the S - 6 , the Act , Code offence respect to the victim criminal and the Canadian and concerns related .
this bill to the motion identical to the bill to the S - 17 , is death to the Order of the end of the last session Parliamentary .
( the bill to the motion read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . second time ?
the senator Oliver :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 57 ( 1 ) f ) the the Rules , I move that the second reading of the bill to the Senate on the the Order of the Order of the next sitting of the Senate .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the leave is the it leave ?
the Honourable Anne C . Cools :
could the I know why he is to the leave ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave . is not granted .
the senator Cools :
honourable senators , I am oddly .
i am prepared to give the leave the I can the basis .
when the parrains the one bill to the board of leave of the Senate , the honourable should be why they the people .
the Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Cools , I regret , but it is the not there have the debate on the motion .
however , if the motion of the Canadian information , the motion . " the honest , if the Senate is the agreement .
we have already been the the situations where a senator asked the leave and a place , did the basis .
honourable senators , souhaitez - you that the question that question ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Oliver :
the the course , some of the witnesses and the the 790 the the evidence .
i wish to the extent of the Canadian . , the " if you or not be a consider that these matters have already been reached in the part of the study of the bill to the the I just the present .
i wish to this tomorrow .
the senator Cools :
the agreement .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Oliver , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 57 ( 1 ) f ) the the Rules , the second reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
bill to the Act , Assent Royal
first Reading
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) presented the bill to the S - 7 , the Convention to the guideline of licensing by the Gouverneure general , the the name of Her Majesty , the Canadian Assent Royal to the bills of the bills , the Houses of the Parliament .
( the bill to the motion read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . second time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Lynch - Staunton , the second reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the Chair of the Thursday 4 November 99 . )
the Act , the Immigration
bill to the Second - First Reading
the Honourable Ron Ghitter , the bill to the S - 8 , the Act , the Act , immigration .
( the bill to the motion read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . second time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Ghitter , the second reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the s?ancedu Thursday 4 November 99 ) .
the Code offence - Act , the system Correctional and the implementation of freedom the condition
bill to the Second - First Reading
the Hon. the Speaker informed that he has received the the Commons . message informed the the bill to the C - 247 , the Act , Code offence and the Act , the system Correctional and the implementation of freedom the condition ( ratified consecutive ) .
( the bill to the motion read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . second time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Cools , the second reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the s?ancedu Tuesday 9 November 99 . )
the Senate
tabling of the report of the delegation of the Senate . Republic Kirghize
the Honourable Nicholas W . Taylor :
business foreign
notice of Motion to the cultivation the committee to engage the the staff
the Honourable John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the 1998 3 November 99 , I move :
that the committee on the Canadian and business foreign the technical , clerical and services of counsel , clerical , clerical the board or other elements necessary to examine the bills of the , the substance of the bills of the and the Estimates budget , he have been removed .
notice of Motion to the cultivation the committee to allow the premature Ministerial the the Senate
the Honourable John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the 1998 3 November 99 , I move :
that the committee on the Canadian and business foreign the technical , to the heading the the deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible . the .
the Canadian the political Canadian antidrogues
notice of Motion During the formation of a committee on Special
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 4 November 99 , I move :
that a committee Special the the Senate , set to the reassess the legislation and the political Canadian antidrogues , the remaining substantially the people of the basis of need offered the the various regions of the country . particularly at the the problems social benefits to the traffic and the the use of the Controlled uniform are the most obvious , the developing the the proposals for release any information on the Canadian political Canadian antidrogues and , finally , the devastating the the recommendations for the provinces , the adoption of a strategy antidrogues the " the point by the to the Canadian encouraging all the levels of the " work in close collaboration the Canadian reduction of the mischief linked to the consumer the Controlled uniform .
the the the the following the to the Canadian carriers the mandate , the the committee be authorized to :
the review the approach adopted by the government , for combat the consumer the Controlled uniform the the Canada , the effectiveness as a the deficit the effects of the consumer the stup?fiants and the extent in the Hon. the motion just ;
the developing a political national the reduction of the mischief to the harshness the impacts negative the Canadian products of compliance uniform the the Canada and to the the recommendations on the way of the this policy , including the possibility of Chartered before the the use and the abuse of compliance as a problem socio - sanitaire ;
the study of centrefolds the reduction of the mischief adopted by the other countries and determine , the the , would be , the the ports partially or assessments , the the Canada ;
the review the role and the obligations international the original the the Canada . " the the conventions the the United Nations the the stup?fiants , the Canadian Declaration interpreted the the outlines of the man and the Canadian and treaty related to the basis , these include the SLBA the other . the government , the the court convergence and the p?nalisation the the response to the international de ;
the CCN the effects of the fibre the Canadian health and to the question of the so , employment of political alternatives to the subject of the use of the fibre conduirait the one increase the the use and the the abuse the short and the long term ;
the study of the the the government logjam the the power to Regulations that the authority to the Act , contraventions as a supplementary the ports , political the reduction of the mischief as it is the use in the other juridictions ;
the study , the question concerned , the political Canadian antidrogues that the committee feels appropriate for work the mandate .
that the committee Special the museum the five senators , the the quorum the Canadian three members ;
that the committee that the power to do appear the the people and the devastating the the documents , the suggested the the witnesses , the make the Canadian time to other and the make papers the the Order of the documents , quiet and evidence that the instructions of the committee ;
that the briefs received and the evidence heard in the the examination of the bill to the C - 8 , the fact , the regulatory the matters drugs and the people stroke , the Canadian and chemicals by the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional during the second session of the Thirty fifth Parliament be providing the the committee ;
that the committee be authorized to Authorize , the the the Krever appropriate , the broadcasting , the broadcasting and the premature by the inclusion of the media coverage of the ground or the one of the the deliberations and the the information that he holds ;
that the committee be authorized to sit during the sittings of the Senate . " the the rule 95 ( 2 ) the the Rules and the Senate ;
that the committee , the report final the the most later three years after the date of the creation .
the Evolution and the marketing
notice of inquiry
the Honourable rald - A .
honourable senators , I give notice that , the traditional 9 November 99 , I bring to the attention of the Senate , the Canadian light of the debate , the in the " the opportunity to the Asia - and f?d?rations , the great principles of the Evolution modern .
the Canadian the Act , the Canadian protection of the Environment
notice of Motion
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 4 November 99 , I move :
that the Senate urge the government to both the - the - sought his study of the Act , the Canadian protection of the Environment and the powers of the reading of this review the the committee on the Canadian the energy , the the Environment and the the resources natural .
the Canadian specifications the the Environment to the children
notice of Motion constitutive
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the 1998 3 November 99 , I move :
that the Senate urge the government to tough a board of specifications the the Environment to the children , the one board entirely responsible for advocating the protection of the children , the risk environmental .
the Defence down
notice of Motion to the Canadian a committee on Special responsible for the Canadian conduct of the staff to the years of the mission , Somalia and the destruction of issues medical the the staff , whatever the Croatia
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the 16 November 99 , I move :
that a committee Special the the Senate , set to the board and the make the Act . the important , top the conduct of the chain of command of the Canadian Forces , as the the operations the the gifted that the the neighbourhood General of the National Defence : the motion ? " - that the reaction to the problems encountered , disciplinary and administrative the the are manifest?s the the years of the deployment the forces in Somalia , in the extent the the issues . the not been initiated by the board of inquiry on the deployment the the Canadian Forces in Somalia ; and the allegations that have the the troops Canadian . was set the Canadian and chemicals sites in Vietnam of 1993 and 1995 , the the the allegations of Storage the the issues medical the military Constitution . Croatia ;
that the committee , in the examination of the issues previous , the technical , papers and the witnesses who , the the , could help to the practice of the inquiry , including , but not exclusively :
the present Minister of the National , as the the two questions sp?cifi?es ;
2 . the former ministers of the National , as the the two questions sp?cifi?es ;
4 . the Opposition the cabinet , int?rim the the Minister of the National Defence , the time , as the the Somalia disasters , Somalia ;
6 . the Law Special the the Minister of the National Defence , the time ( J .
Muriel ) , as the the Somalia disasters , Somalia ;
7 . the people , editor the position of Justice - lawyer General during the period concern?e , as the the Somalia disasters , Somalia ;
8 . the Krever , lawyers General Deputy - Litiges the the time , as the the Somalia disasters , Somalia ; and
9 . the Opposition the state of Staff of the National and the subamendment , Chief of the - Chief of the National the the time , as the the two questions sp?cifi?es .
that seven senators named by the committee , usefulness confrontation the part of the Canadian the committee Special , and that three are the quorum ;
that the committee be authorized to print the the people , the make produce the the documents and the the issues , the suggested the the witnesses Connolly , the make the Canadian time to other and the make papers the the Order of the documents and evidence that the instructions of the committee ;
that the committee be authorized to Authorize , the the the Krever appropriate , the broadcasting and the broadcasting the Canadian corporation or the one of the the deliberations ;
that the committee be authorized to withhold the services of counsel , professional , clerical , clerical the board or the other people to the to the help to lead the study ;
that the parties political parties to the committee Special receive a de to the contribution of expert the the Senate . the committee ;
that the committee be authorized to travel to the trade and the the foreign the the Canada ;
that the committee be authorized to sit during the committee and the cong?s the the Senate ;
that the committee writing the report of year , the most of the formation and that , if the Senate . " no , the time when the report is tabled the one - the Senate as a , the report of the the the motion has the the Clerk of the Senate .
the funding of the post post
notice of inquiry
the Honourable Norman K . Atkins :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 4 November 99 , I give the attention of the Senate on the funding of the post post the the Canada , particularly the part of the funding that supportent the students , in the Canadian develop the the political , viseront the amoindrir the burden of the burden of the students , the level post the the Canada .
the Conference on the equality of the women and their involvement the Canadian life public
notice of inquiry
the Honourable Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 4 November 99 , I give the attention of the Senate on my involvement recent the the 70e anniversary of the case , one of the in the part of the Conference on the equality of the women and their involvement the Canadian life public , the Canada and the the U - Parliamentary , the the motion held in 21 and 22 October 1998 , the London , in England .
the Canadian distinguished and their role in the U - Parliamentary
notice of inquiry
the Honourable Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , pursuant to the 56 56 ( 1 ) , 56 ( 2 ) and 57 ( 2 ) the the Rules , I give notice that Thursday next , the 4 November 99 , I give the attention of the Senate on the
the motion of the various the the Canada , the years , the House of the House of the U - Parliamentary , there was the village of the Ontario Fathers Blake , Minister of the Justice of the Canada . 1875 the 1877 and chief of the Liberal Party of the Canada . 1880 the 1887 , the village of the New - New the very hon. Bonar Law , the Minister of the U - Parliamentary the 1922 the 1923 , and the village of the Ontario Sir Bryant Irvine , Chairman of the Canadian the House of the House of the U - Parliamentary the 1976 the amending ;
b ) the people filtered the the Canada , the years , the House of the Lords the the U - Parliamentary , there was the tr?shon. Richard B . Bennett , the Minister of the Canada . 1930 the 1935 , and witty Beaverbrook , Minister of the U - Parliamentary the 1918 and the 1940 the 1942 ;
c ) the continents of Fredrick Born the the U - Parliamentary or in the dominions and colonies the people served in the Senate and the Canadian House of the House of the Canada , there was the tr?shon. John Turner , the Minister of 1984 and chief of the Opposition Liberal the 1984 , 1990 , and I - the , Senator Johnston , ending born in the Antilles similarities ;
d ) the people of citizenship Canadian , the fact , the the Council Office of the U - Parliamentary , there was the first ministers of the Canada , the judges in the Canadian the Court Supreme and some ministers Canadian the the Leader of the government to the Senate . 1921 the 1930 and the 1935 the 1942 , the tr?shon. Senator Raoul Dandurand , the the summer appointed to the Council Office of the U - Parliamentary the 1941 ;
e ) the resolution Nickle the 1919 , a motion of the House of the House of the Canada . the Canadian a question to Her Majesty the king George V , and the comments that the Prime Minister R . B . Bennett the viewpoint the 1934 the Hon. the "
the the was also inefficient , the the possible .
the only the was inefficient , but it was also , I regret to the " , a drag the the sovereign the - the .
the important what court of the constitutional or anyone . the Canadian only to study this issue . in studying , the . " ;
f ) the comments that the Prime Minister R . B . Bennett the viewpoint the 1934 in a letter to the House J . R . MacNicol :
the so that I resterai citizen of the trickle British and loyalist the Canadian the king , I hear recognize the the sovereign the prerogative of learning the services of the issues . "
g ) the many distinguished Canadians who have been 1919 received the the unending the the king or the Canadian Queen of the Canada , there was the rank the the Order of the chevalerie the 1934 the Sir Lyman Duff , Justice in the Canadian the Court Supreme the the Canada , in 1935 the Sir Ernest MacMillan , musicien , in 1986 . Sir Bryant Irvine , Parliamentary , in 1994 , Sir Neil Shaw , changing , and the 1994 , Sir Conrad Swan , de the the Prime Minister Pearson to the subject of the flag national the the Canada ;
at ) the many distinguished Canadians who have received 646 honours and stars the souverains foreign not similarities and the Canadian of 1919 and February 1929 ;
( Deputy the Government legal and constitutional the the Canadian of Fredrick and the citizenship the their ability or their inaptitude the Senate to the House of the Lords and the " the House of the House of the U - Parliamentary , including the Canadian domicili?s the the U - Parliamentary and beyond the Canadian taxation citizenship the the Canada and the the U - Parliamentary ;
j ) the Government legal and constitutional the the Canadian domicili?s the the country , the the foreign the their right to receive the the unending and the the Ordre the their own sovereign , the Queen Elizabeth II of the Canada , and that their right to receive the the unending and the the Ordre the souverains other that the their , there was the sovereign of the France the honour to the Order Alaska the Canadian Legion the honour ;
scientific ) the unending , the Ordre and the motto the not have not h?r?ditaires as the U the life , the rank the the Order of the chevalerie and the levels military and the chevalerie ;
l ) the recommendation by the Prime Minister British Tony Blair the Queen Majesty the Queen Elizabeth II to the appointment as member of h?r?ditaire the Canadian House of the Lords Conrad Black , a distinguished publisher and entrepreneur Canadian and Colonel honorary the the Governor General' s Foot Guards the the Canada .
the access to the data the the census
introduction of Petitions
the Honourable Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the honour to present a petition the the Ontario Genealogical Society , the summer signed by per cent and the request , the said :
... the petitioners concurrence the Parliament of the one bill to the preserve the data the the marked the following 1901 , the the simplest the the Archives Finance and the end these responses and those of the marked ult?rieurs the Canadian section of the public , the end of 92 years , the the motion presently consistent the the many provisions legislation on the protection of the information personal and the the normal now , into the
the Senate . the Senate
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I will be false , later today , the the subject of the use the the Rules that the senator Lynch - Staunton has raised the other day .
however , I wish go to the to note some problems that problem . Stollery .
however , I do think that the the Senate . the the Senate wish .
i wish simply wish to the need correct . anomalies in our rules .
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Agency Canadian of the Customs and the the income
the changes to the benefit tax national to children , - effects on the licensing
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the spring the , I have drawn the attention of the Senate on a pioneer the structure of the Prestation tax national to children in the case of the families , low income , the Canadian three children .
the the intent of the Leader of the government , I will conclude the new the problem .
in 2001 , the government will eliminate traps the Prestation tax national to children , a rate of clawback of GDP per to the families with a child , the 19,7p. per to the families with both children and the 27,6p. per to the families of three children or more .
let it is inevitably the one direction of the family , four children who lives to Halifax , in Nova Scotia Nova , and the the income family is the 30 per $ , if it has the possibility of gain per $ the advent of the hour additional , a time that the last changes will have amendments to the benefit of 2001 .
honourable senators , I will you read , numbers .
i have already recovered copy of these figures the the Leader of the the so I take .
he is the then the credits the tax subordonn?s the the income .
honourable senators , in the speech , the Throne , the government has announced a aspire the two billion . $ the Canadian Prestation national to children , the details the be releases certified .
the Leader of the government can the the us that if the government has the intent of the serious how totalisent the different tax and the amounts incorporated before the introduction of years changes to the Prestation national to children ?
the government can the the giving the the Senate . the the the dreaming this inequity particularly serious to the people of the Nova Scotia Nova ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I thank the senator Oliver , I have given a copy of these calculus a little before my arrival the the Senate .
i know that the senator has the heart of the the the the the .
i am pleased that the senator from mentioned the increase Annual the two billion . $ the Canadian Prestation tax national to children who has been meeting in the last Budgets , and that the assistance Annual the close to 7 billion . $ the the families benefit of the this benefit , the Middle the July 2000 .
the Honourable Senator has recognized that , and we are relatively all of the " that he is a that the one of government . important .
i wish to add that , for a family , the two children , the benefit maximale is the 3 750 $ , the the potential a higher the equivalent per by the " the benefit maximale the 1996 .
i know that the Honourable Senator the medical the the progress that we have anything .
honourable senators , he I int?ressera certainly the subject of the example specific .
i am sure that the government account the Canadian all the factors that the senator has mentioned .
the the the concerns that the particular , I will I enqu?rir the Canadian and various parts and I can assure the the senator , his concern will fail to the authorities appropriate .
the senator Oliver :
the Minister agree certainly with me that , when a far the four children who try to gain per $ the most of neglected with only 16,84 $ , the government must be some other for trying to remove the the provisions of clawback .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am the agreement with the senator .
we do we certainly not accepting a far only to four children in this situation . try to gain per $ the most .
in all the tables the people were conducted , I am asking if the premium the the Pension the pension of the Canada , by the , the GST to all the levels of income or the the , the one of the income accomplishing - the significance comes to the the GST not .
as I do pretend not be a specialist the Canadian the , I wish to the matter with the the people averties .
i agree certainly the spirit of the point that the the senator .
the United Nations
the disarmament nuclear - Government Policy the the government side , the resolution of the York Agenda Coalition
the Honourable Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate , the I commend the the appointment and the the I wish to the success can .
the 19 April the , in his answer to the report of the committee Standing the the business foreign and the the trade internationally , the government . the Canada . initially the work with the York Agenda Coalition to achieve some objectives , the Canadian disarmament nuclear .
the 26 October the , the York Agenda Coalition the report of resolution to the first commission of the Assembly general , the United Nations .
... the the United legal the weapons nuclear the the CCN , jurisdictional the way handcuff and the ground to the Elimination of their arsenaux nuclear and the uncertainty , fairly the the negotiations and the the lead to the opportunity , parvenant , the the disarmament nuclear which they are held under the the article VI of the Treaty the Canadian non - proliferation of the weapons nuclear .
the the the Minister . respond , honourable senators , I wish to the honourable I , let , to the the two languages official the resolution that the York Agenda Coalition the motion to the first commission of the Assembly general , the United Nations the 22 October 1998 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave to table of statement ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I thank the Honourable Senator Roche the the question .
i the deep also to the the the the said before the the role of the Canada in the efforts of peace - the peace in the world .
these comments crumpled particularly to the .
in the the the policy , the question specific that the Honourable Senator has raised , I am sure that the Minister of the Foreign Affairs and the the International Covenant chair carefully , in time and the , the Government of the government and that he is make public , time wanted .
i am pleased to the make know , the the Honourable Senator .
the senator Roche :
in analysant the text of the resolution , I do is not the Senate owned with the political the the government ' .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am happy to speak to take my the Canadian through the the tabled the Honourable Senator and the make the Canadian and observations the the ministers knowledgeable .
the Defence down
the replacement of the helicopters Sea King
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I have several questions . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the senator Graham I missed , but I would wish to welcome , Mr. , and you wish to chance .
is precisely 1 196 days that the senator Graham I was promised that the very , the delegation to the " shortly the , the in the few days . in the , the annoncerait the replacement of the helicopters consortium .
yesterday , the Minister of the Foreign Affairs , qualified the Estimates paramount the federal - defence of the ennuyeuses the .
honourable senators , a cruiser very patient not be not be dialysis the Hon. ship to the broad the Canadian Coast . the Canadian Nova Scotia Nova , the Sea King of the HMCS Fredericton not . not getting , the as the Sea King the ship the the HMCS Ville the Quebec , and that he not there has not the Sea King the Shearwater .
the Minister is the the Canadian agreed with the Minister of the Foreign Affairs , the - the drain the Estimates , national the ennuyeuses ?
the concern to the the well - be the our military , the livelihood the one stock sure and violating ?
in the , he is almost immoral the lurch these we fly .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
the senator Forrestall there is the Canadian a cruiser the the motion found in a situation difficult .
the my suggestions , the carrier is the gap the the back soon . the hospital .
however , it is enhanced not to the question raised by the Honourable Senator .
i have had the the discussions with the Minister of the National Defence , the " the indicated that the replacement of the helicopters is a criminal priority .
i share would be the Canadian , with the Minister of the National Defence and I do m?nagerai not my belief to me to the the statutory voulus that the place to the headwind these helicopters .
the senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , I believe that the the Leader of the government to the Senate . is now committed to spend as the time to the morosity the the problems facing the navy , particularly the make the the " keep the redorer the blason Liberal in our wonderful province .
the West Power Power Regiment - Government appointment of a Colonel honorary
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I wish question . the Act , the the back to most three years .
the West Power Power Regiment expected been well , the two years , 1966 the one new Colonel honorary .
it is long that is regiment . color? not the not the Colonel honorary .
if the Minister . the not the information today , the and the the well be the case , the delegation and the - the biological - they would be the appointment the be made the most efficiently possible ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I rise to the serious the remontrances the the Honourable Senator the means that we am?liorions the situation . the navy the Canadian Coast Atlantic .
the the the motion of redorer the blason the the Liberal Party , however , I wish to the " that the two things . the not necessarily conflicting .
in the the the policy , the regiment the talking the senator , I do back to the way out .
i will therefore , his question . His and I , fournirai the the information to the subject . later .
the - time , if the senator has the the suggestions to the subject of a Colonel honorary , I am pleased to the make the " and management positions .
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis crop to the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan - Government visit the Canadian delegation to Ottawa - Effect anomalies in the statistics
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , the first ministers of the Manitoba and the Canadian Saskatchewan , came here , Ottawa to ask the the government . in the assistance to the farmers .
our Prime Minister and the government . the knowledge that the the statistics the situation . would not be wrong and that he not . " no need to the government would be assistance might to the farmers .
however , these statistics not have not been communiqu?es the most of the people to the the assistance .
the Leader of the government to the Senate might - the user of the good boards for the government that the Minister of the Agriculture obey public and uncoordinated the case for the us can the review ?
when I have examined the statistics to the Canadian Saskatchewan , they have been abusing very clear and I am sure that the other will the agreement with me to the subject .
as all the Middle , the the cost of production . the time , high that the price of sales .
the Minister can the the us that if we can a day , these responses boxing the reasons the Prime Minister of support ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Agriculture and met the first ministers of the Saskatchewan and the the Manitoba , the the delegations the the accompagnaient .
he did , the one some confusion as the the numbers of which the two parties , appuyaient .
we find the rationaliser these responses and I do I will assume that the data rationalis?es will recall public soon .
however , I do I do let that the , because the the , the difference of opinion respect to some statistics , because , the government . comprehensive not the other measures .
this would be a conclusion . too h?tive .
the senator Spivak :
honourable senators , the Prime Minister of my province . consummate am?rement Whip .
i know that a committee . dealt the the numbers .
however , the assistance demand?e by the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan was the as the Minister of the fabric , the claim billion . $ .
i have d?duit the the talk the I have conversations with the people who are decade , the Prime Minister , and that the the stuff published in the press and the the documents published in the following the one drain in the U.S. Financial , the us know that he not to deceive have the the the government . removed not the region . the Canadian this important , the " the opinion , it is the not necessary to deal of crisis .
in the , the answer is a non - unequivocally .
the Minister has the somewhat the " we say today , the indiquerait that is not . not at the attitude of the government ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the government has grappling that 900 million . $ the the program ACRA .
the provinces have the one afforded the recruit million . $ .
in the Canadian . $ , the delegation . " a balancing Supplementary the claim billion . $ .
i think that the the world . the agreement that the above .
the answer to the government has been the the not relaxed not the the " could consider a balancing the claim billion . $ .
i do think that the the fact changed the opinion .
however , he would spokesperson the agreements , no , not . available .
the crisis crop to the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan - Effect representations made to the Prime Minister
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I know fully the event about the Minister .
i would greetings their point of the .
the the victims of the honourable , I am I personally entretenue with several delegations .
they the people failure .
however , the " this , no . we now , that the the will the .
the Minister signalera the " the Prime Minister and the Hon. cabinet the the morale is the the most there , the the Manitoba ?
the people of the province . believe marginaux and the affair the the attention leave to all the other regions of the country .
i do I do the their view .
the Minister will be the government . the feeling the making the poindre the the Manitoba ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I guaranteed personally to the Honourable Senator that the remarks will ensued the the Prime Minister of the first opportunity .
the the " that struck the the ACRA a significant the money important , the somewhat 1.5 billion . $ , and the the 36 $ 241.8 have been showed in the part of the program , he is the in the the complaints as the the fact that this money . the not been d?bloqu? as it . would have to respond effectively to the needs .
the the concerns . the summer concerns as the the fact that the amount Beaudoin to the program would not . the understanding .
all these remarks are taken to the serious .
the government to examine with the .
the crisis crop to the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan - Conformity effectiveness of the program of the in the Canadian origin related to the income crop
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate . indicated that the ACRA operating , the
the message that we envoient the farmers . the West Canadian is that he is the the the functions , the , but that he not agree that the problem . problems that are the Saskatchewan and the Manitoba .
this send the summer Message the the Prime Minister federal , the one of the two premiers ministers provincial the the least .
why the request of remanier the ACRA introduced by the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan . the it is the received Right ?
why the " the hope to the first ministers of these provinces that he is that the the new ?
why the - they were attir?s the Ottawa to the make that a time , the the the government would be the case ?
after the the months of tergiversations , is the the that a way of the tra?ner the things for the the not be more a single family , farmers ?
is the the that the plan secret the the government ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , for the fundamental the the Honourable Senator , I do I do that the the ACRA operated Allison , and not had not need to enhance .
this is my I said , the motion that is the one of a Array billion . $ .
some 36 $ farmers . the subscriber the soumettant a request .
the the least , they are the area , a time , the
i think that the the world does the the money dispens? by the inclusion of the program . the not been circulated , effectively that he would have the be .
the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Agriculture taking the question to the serious .
the talks that they have enlightened with the first ministers provincial and confirmed that the people knew have the
i hope that the the improvements will be made to the program existing and that the entire find the other forms of the .
the senator Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I have received the the calls of farmers who have the one of the the part of ACRA .
they have been said that this could take up to six months to have a response .
how the government can the the knowledge , the program delivery , if the answer to the farmers expect desperately so six months , up ?
some of those who have the one of the April or in May not receive the day , notification that they not have not covered .
the the just the confidence that the government has the the ACRA ?
after consultation , the first ministers of the Saskatchewan and the the Manitoba are concluded the Ottawa convinced that their problems would have the the serious , the the place . to the subject of education additional .
they will formerly the the the the farm the are the the ship the Canadian Tax that sauv?es .
a time that the farmers will parties , they not reviendront not .
this is the not a precious fee .
when they leaving the hard rock , they leaving the Saskatchewan . It destroyed the basis .
we do dishonour not the Canadian , diversity that some other provinces , there was the Canadian the Leader of the government .
we d?pendons the the Agriculture , the the least for the time .
when chair , the program ACRA the the point of the Canadian the Saskatchewan and the the Manitoba , rather than the one point of the world ?
he not there has the Canadian time to lose .
the other education . the most needed .
the person certainly the chamber a step with the fishery , the the the Minister should that the
the not be more will .
the problem is critical .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , her the senator will assure if I can the government that a monopoly the the place in the time .
the senator Andreychuk :
we do we not need to the .
the senator Boudreau :
the Deputy the senator , and it is the likely not the only to have this opinion , the program . the not fonctionn? , the the the the the .
the senator has spoken of U in the treatment of the CCN .
the government has made this issue of the serious .
we are the results of the serious review will stay public . soon .
the crisis crop to the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan - Government visit the one delegation to Ottawa - Effect anomalies in the statistics
the Honourable David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
we talking the well , the things which we do we not a " the armed .
however , a thing that we know , the motion that the farmers . the west of the Canada rely among the farmers the most productive , the most effective and the most commensurate the the world .
they grow the the events of the most horrific quality .
yet , the the people . the to a thing , they are Tax .
it , we , we .
they are accul?s the Canadian Tax and some of suicident .
the honourable Sparrow , Gustafson , Spivak and Andreychuk speak to the problem has the fall 1998 . We the we heard , in February , the as we , we have the March , in April and the June .
the first ministers of these two provinces are then came to visit to the government .
what months we , we ?
they have received the the numbers of the Prime Minister and the the Minister of the Agriculture .
when they have asked the the clandestine these figures , the their the said that they not become not the " .
i am a guys than the the Prairies .
the my opinion , the Minister is the " when the numbers will stay public and how this situation . did the devastating .
the the clandestine these figures ?
the the apologize should be made to the two premiers ministers who have been treated the Canadian the .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , he is the shortfall a difference of Saskatchewan , the the concerns of figures are the are fi?s the two premiers ministers provincial and the Prime Minister .
i do believe that the the problem that was resolved to the date .
all the efforts voulus will loans . the Canadian bridges these figures and the matter public the way that a wide the summer agreement .
this is a very large problem , as the record of the senator .
the senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , the first ministers . said that all their numbers performance the the data the Statistics Canada and the the Department federal - the Agriculture and that the the data that the government , the communiqu?es the the great public .
when the " the requested to the government , the onus the numbers the the first ministers , they not have not been in the Canadian the make .
he not enough . the " that he is the in a difference of Saskatchewan .
if not the not been the case .
the first ministers provincial and statement a problem .
they have used to compare and the numbers that their the Hong the government . the Canada .
the government . the Canada has reported that : " We we , and figures , but we do you Mister not the the people from the "
this was a great not to the .
i think that the government . the Canada should be the the apologize to the two premiers ministers and the d?p?cher the us that when he 24 , numbers and their concern to the House of the House and the the Senate .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I bring the point of the Canadian the senator to the Minister of the Agriculture and the the Prime Minister .
the specific , I believe that the Minister of the Agriculture provide a explanation .
the following the discussions that I have conversations with him , I am eagerly the the the the the report directly .
the crisis crop to the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan - Effect impact economic the Canadian drop of the income crop
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the House .
the Estimates , the Department of the Agriculture and the the Agroalimentaire to 99 chiffraient the income crop net , Saskatchewan , the 48 million . $ , the the level of the low that he has reached been 1933 , and that includes the cash from the the assurance - grown , the the Account the stabilization of the income net and the the Program of the in the Canadian origin related to the income crop .
the Estimates for the Manitoba , chiffraient the least per million . $ , the level of the low have reached the the years of the century , the most low that the the years at the
the frustration of the farmers and the the two premiers ministers provincial is incredible .
i am a farmer and I grew among themselves .
we do we not we in dealing .
he is to a thing .
the situation will the serious effects Finance to the whole of the Canada .
we thought a industry . culmination .
he not there has not the producers the effective , the world that the producers of grain the the west of the Canada .
the Leader of the government to the Senate , the members of the cabinet and the Prime Minister . the inoculation - they not the the that will the serious effects Finance , but only in terms of tentations the separation or the union the the United - United , but the words economic to the Canada ?
the food agricultural lactation by our farmers drive to a good the " our gained trade .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I can assure the Honourable Senator that the Prime Minister includes the importance of the area crop to the whole of the economy Canadian .
the only two weeks before my into the basis in this chamber respected , I have had the opportunity to go with the Bank of the Canada . Saskatchewan , there meet the the farmers and the people representations .
i will have also the one visit in a youth crop and I admire do the activities , the effectiveness and the productivity of the farmers . the Prairies .
the the years of this visit , I am I realized that however , the magnitude of the problem .
this problem require the the one of government to short term .
he is that the farmers are on a set of equality with their competitors across the the world and we must be brief to the people have the the opportunity playing .
they have poses in the past , and they the agreements in the future , the the people have the the opportunity playing , they can , the success .
i draw the clear to the Honourable Senator that the Prime Minister , the Minister of the Agriculture and I - the amounts know , the importance of the area crop . the West to the country . world .
the crisis crop to the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan - Government Position of a program of credit crop
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate reopened - the Canadian Presented the the cabinet the one clause to the burden the debt , the Corporation of the credit crop ?
the government would the make , since the farmers respective their bills . the people of money .
as the the record , the celebration the farmers to the not carry their taxes .
nine municipalities have decided to the way of a vote of the not pay their taxes .
i have heard the the pr?fet the Canadian municipality the Wellington .
the the , the not . not the the farmers sign the population their taxes , but , the people are unable to the make .
they not have paid to the money that they not have not .
the Leader of the government to the Senate would the the Canadian convey to the cabinet and the the Prime Minister of suggestion that they have taken to the serious to deal of a way or the one another the problem of the debt , the Corporation of credit crop ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the violation the terms of the cabinet , I can walk the this issue found in the the program of the cabinet .
it is surprend no , honourable senator , the motion of the very did , the the public . the community crop .
i do summer no difficulty the suggestion the representations to my colleagues , the public . the cabinet .
library of the Parliament Langues official due to the regulatory
the committee abiding standing - Message the the Commons
the Hon. the Speaker informed that he has received the the Commons , message following :
he is scheduled - Why the committee abiding standing of the House of civilian the the House of the names included , the following :
library of the Parliament
the "
president , Annie , Catterall , Cloutier , Finlay , Grey ( Edmonton - North ) , Harb , Karygiannis , Lavigne , Lill , Limoges , Mayfield , Manitoba , singers , Price , Redman - ( 16 )
the associated :
Davies , Dumas , Robbie ( Rimouski - Mitis )
official languages
the "
B?langer , Bellemare , Chamberlain , the Savoye , Folco , Godin ( Acadie - Bathurst ) , Hill ( Macleod ) , Kilger , Lavigne , Mark , McTeague , McWhinney , Meredith , Muise , singers , Serr? - ( 16 )
the associated :
Dumas , Manitoba , Nystrom , Robbie ( Rimouski - Mitis ) , Turp
the Canadian the regulatory
the "
president , Bonwick , Bryden , Scientology , Comuzzi , DeVillers , Epp , Grewal , Lebel , Murray , Nystrom , Pankiw , Pillitteri , Saada , Venne , strip , White ( Sydney Vancouver ) , on page )
the associated :
Bellehumeur , Dockrill , Guimond , Robbie ( Rimouski - Mitis )
that a message be restored to the Senate to the frigate the honourable senators , the names of the House of stable the House of the committee abiding standing .
ATTEST? :
the Senate . the Senate
the statement of the Speaker on the licensing of a leave to the years of the business contains and the the event of the 14 October 1998
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , you , you , with the the I would now , statement that the senator Lynch - Staunton I was asked the make the the subject of the business contains the Canadian the last session ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the 14 October , for the business contains , the senator Hays has asked the leave of the , the the reading of the opinion of motions of the government , a motion in the Canadian extend the adjournment of the Senate .
the leave to the summer leave , but as the Canadian . the summer the in discussion , he is the in a certain confusion as the Canadian Rules and follow .
the Canadian reseller , the motion envelope the adjournment of two weeks . was passed and the Senate is spent in other things .
however , when the Order of the Order the summer called , the senator Lynch - Staunton has asked to the Speaker of clarify the question to the Republic of confusion the the future .
i thank him the senator Lynch - Staunton , the point of the , I believe that is the important .
the " that the , I have the thought the Canadian . and I am now prepared to me deal of my interpretation of the application of the rules and environmentally the the Senate .
in my statement , I am I tried to examine the most of the possible , but I do I do that the have covered all the innovation .
in addition , this review will permit the challenges some shortcomings and incoh?rences in the Rules , the reasons the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules should be dealt .
the formulation at the the business contains the part of the Orders of the Senate has 1991 .
this year - that , the Rules and the Senate . was amended to draw the Order in which the issues of the business contains would appel?es the Canadian , the the statements of senators ,
this order is established to the rule 23 ( 6 ) .
the article body , the the the issues of privilege and the incidental to the Rules are Determination the the reading of the business contains and that the vote by counsel recorded asked the order to 17 at 1:30 , except in the Canadian motion . debate the fault wants .
the other provisions of the article treaties the time to the the Permanent the period of the issues and the time to the the Order of the Order will decline if the time planned to the business contains is extended .
the period of the business contains includes the introduction of reports the committee standing or special , the opinion of motions of the government , and that the opinion of motions made by the other senators ,
generally , the chairs are simply to their report and the honourable face the Canadian the motion .
but the the opportunity , the leave is demand?e the way of the the - sought , or more later , the years of the day , the Canadian demands of the report of a committee .
the same , the the reading of the opinion of motions , the chairman of a committee ask the leave of the one would the WTO the Hon. the Canadian . In the one time when the Senate might be in the .
these past years , all the duration the the Senate seat , the Leader Deputy of the government to most convenience the leave of the one would the the the Senate . sitting , 13 at 1:30 the 1998 , the " Quit at the
each time that he is asked the d?roger the Canadian Rules and the business contains , he is a the one of the application of the GST 57 or 58 .
the leave is leave the no Senator this in the room not to the coalition .
if a single the , else , the question . " be addressed the Canadian reseller the the matter being .
in addition , if the leave is leave , the adoption of the report or the Canadian motion is proposed the - the - sought , except if the request , the in until the examination of the late to the years of the day .
when the question concerned , the report or the Canadian motion is a " and Senators , it is sujette the debate .
the fact that these issues duplication a hat related clear that they are controversial the debate .
no , the committee or motion of TAGS the motion of the the Hon. the motion soustrait the Canadian of the one debate .
the fact that the motions made with the leave of the Senate to the reading of the business contains not have rarely or ever debatable not mean not the provinces . so that the be .
only the motions made . wants to the be debatable .
a time , debate in the , all the rules divesting the debate . applicable , there was the possibility of a point of the Rules .
it has the the fact that the mixture that the question that the " and Senators , the S?ant the motion of the fact influencing the the business contains to the length of the debate , the " is that he be tranch? or adjourned .
the my argument , the restriction of the rule 23 ( 1 ) , dating the incidental to the Rules and the issues of privilege to the reading of the business contains , not to apply not to the debate , the the the the Senate . is exactly the " the reading of the business contains .
if the by the , a request of voting by counsel recorded . the " the end of the debate , the rule 23 ( 3 ) body that he will stands the 17 at 1:30 the Order - that , except , the course , if the leave is leave of the meeting of a place at the
a place clause of the article 23 , applies the so . debate is the years .
the rule 23 ( 7 ) provides that the the most later at minutes , the call the the Prime the Canadian and business contains , the Senate must move the Canadian the Canadian and the .
he is therefore possible that the examination of the business contains or a debate in the Act , the Canadian and business contains the interrompu by the period of the issues .
the fact , the motion . the the motion a the 6 May 1993 , the debate in Social reading of the bill to the C - 114 , amend the Act campaign the the Canada , the summer asked immediately after the introduction of the report on the bill to the , the amendment , by the committee , the business legal and Constitutional .
the this opportunity , the bill to the one reading of reading of the third reading the Canadian reseller the the matter of 30 minutes to the business contains heading the period of the issues .
the Senate is then spent in the examination of the Order of the Order of return to the business contains .
is therefore , basically the the person to the when the Senate agrees the developing a motion to the reading of the business contains .
i hope that these Particulars you will the best understand that aspect of our proceedings .
this , the motion of the Thursday p.m. October the , when the senator Hays has asked the leave of the one would the " ongoing the adjournment of the Senate , was a consistent the our rules and environmentally .
on business orders
the speech , the Throne
motion of the Canadian the Adresse the answer to Continued the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Jeffrey , seconded by the Honourable Senator Furey , seconded the the adoption of a Adresse the Governor General of Gouverneure general , on the the speech that contemporaries the speech in the the opening of the second session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament .
( 1 on the Canadian resuming the the debate adjourned
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , before the things , I wish to the " thank my predecessor , friends and graduate of the Nova Scotia Nova , the senator Graham , the the excellent leadership that he has presided the the Senate to the years of the two years in the
the the Hon. the
hear !
the senator Boudreau :
i would agree recognizing the the assistance and the the support generous that he I was set the past weeks , since my appointment , for reasons I have had affected the things , learned .
i hear insisting , vergogne the the assistance to the the so generously proposed the intention to me give .
honourable senators , I assure the the opportunity to thank the senator Carstairs , the excellent work that it has done for these two years , the position of Leader Deputy .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the senator Boudreau :
i hope the benefit of the CTAISB knowledge and the the rich experience , the the time when we Excise a new session of the Parliament .
the senator Hays has been well Games in my saying that he would , difficult to satisfy the the standards exigeantes cut by the senator Carstairs .
all of the us hope largely call the the lights in the day , in the
i wish to congratulate the honourable Jeffrey and Furey the the fine speeches that they have elevated to propose and support the Adresse the answer to the speech , the Throne .
i am in like to the not add my congratulations to the many other that the control our new Gouverneure general .
the appointment prove that the dream Canadian . is not only a dream ; it is the transcript .
the person to eat to the the most officials positions , the country and help the way . calibre to our vision collective the the Canada .
what is that particular ?
the Prime Minister of the armed , in his answer to the speech , the Throne :
this is a Canada , each child is assured of a good start in the life , the the young the Canadian of the the ?panouir and the result of potential in the area of their choice , the the citizens . access to the knowledge and the the skills the people have the to achieve .
this is a Canada , the citizens , what the Senate . Tax , receiving the the care of health of quality , the the families live in security in a community widest , the us work of slaughterhouse with the other countries , promoting the peace , the diversity cultural and the maximize the Canadian new economy mondialis?e -
this is a Canada , is a leader and a model the the world world so that belief .
the autumn say that the be the the are there , representing words and they will interrogeront the - be on their partisans real .
fortunately , these words , a very important partisans .
the government hardware this vision , the Canadian strategy , is stated in the speech , the Throne and the the words of the the the commitment to work in cooperation with the provinces and the territories to the " the point of Program national the action to the children .
he hardware this vision , strong a plan of action national , the Canadian expertise and the learning to the 21 century .
he is resident by the inclusion of initiatives to the increase the access to the business Canadian , the market global .
he is resident , the Canadian and programs , marine the latest the infrastructure of the knowledge of the Canada , including the Canadian Airborne the the instituts Canadian of research , health , and the traditional more the research , technology .
he is resident in giving the the government , Fitzpatrick our infrastructure of the information unsurpassed .
he hardware this vision , anti - and initiatives to improve our environment .
honourable senators , this vision of the Canada is enthousiasmante and it is becoming fact .
our country . reading of turning .
we have the Canadian the Order in our money , our budget is balanced and the the advent .
as the Gouverneure general we , the said in the speech , the Throne :
the government is resolved the objective of political the management financial prudent .
the ever the not allow the the " perde the control of the Finance . the state .
he will the so that the debt falling throughout the report , the product within gross .
he bonds the commitment to the the beginning of this Parliament of palliative the half of the surplus budget , the Income the Canadian debt and the the break the the tax , and the other half the the investment regarding the answer to the needs social and economic the the Canadian .
honourable senators , he is the however , and costing in our country , require our attention .
i just the one area , the years of many years , the suffered the Hon. ?loignement the the Senate . the power economic and political the the country .
the Cape - Cape , the CHST the example , the Use completely the economy .
the government . the the recelait the subamendment , acre , the Cape - Cape the view , based anytime for the the generations the the mining the minerais the not have more exploitables the way profitable the great international , the the least not as they the people were in the past , and the the industry . the game the ages now have lost his right to be economic .
in the Canadian this accident geographical , the Cape - Cape not to the ever fresher the one start critical the export of manufacturing or the export of the mechanization to 8.4 the Canadian Foundation . the export traditional unfounded the the resources min?rales .
the most of the regions . the number decades for the U the the new realities economic , but the time . a luxury that the the not the Cape - Cape .
he must be into radically .
he must be a great show in the in the development economic .
he must be propulser , almost the the Order of the next , in the new age entering - industrial .
i believe that the speech , the Throne contains a message of hope for the Cape - Cape and the the other regions similar to our great country .
in the speech , the senator Furey the subject of the rate of the in the Canadian . reviewing in his province , Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the Labrador .
he has said :
today , the Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the Labrador the tranquility in the tourmente the the great changes technological and economic , balayent the world .
the people of this area . the actuaries however , just ; they are called the people within and the people learning of long date for the opposite to the realities of the change quick .
the " and creative , and individual , and solidarity , and determination and their diligently to the work , they realize their dreams and Constitutional to the prior to province and their country .
the readiness and the Internet can stimulate the opportunity to the city and the campaign , and the centre of the Canada and the provinces telling , and the rich and the poor .
recently , I have heard about the one person who lives to Mount Pearl , the Newfoundland - Newfoundland , and the t?l?travaille to a business of collaborated the Los Angeles .
the place where 21.2 the worker any little to the employer .
the the the fact , the motion , determination and the branchement Internet .
the people of my province , the Nova Scotia Nova , the record quite well .
in all the examples of the province , he is the Canadian and consulates the business . Technology , the information , are ready to the free the the response to the information .
the Scotians - Scotians are already the this Highway and some foncent the entire skating to the success .
the Prime Minister of the Canada has set the objective : to the the Canada . Alasdair global in the use inventive the the OECD to do the the business and encourage the expansion quick of the trade Ministerial the the Canada .
honourable senators , the people of the Nova Scotia Nova are the first , the Canada for the the motion of the Upholder and the Canadian grain the events by Internet .
we have quickly realized the potential of the Internet and we in recognizing .
i will you to a leadership .
in 1995 , when the market estate fighting the the 1910 , the leadership of two tours the constituency jumelles in the centre - conceived the Halifax . did the serious problems .
these buildings , the dance the sixth of the local the constituency of the centre - conceived the Halifax , were followed the - land .
the leadership . , although the other . great risk .
it has put the cable to the one access quick and the forefront the Internet .
the , in November 1998 , the Presbyterian the Purdy' s Wharf the dismantling the history , lone the Prime complex the the Canada provider the services Internet .
this is a vision , a bill and a tale the people reported .
in the , Purdy' s Wharf the corps eight business of technology the the information occupying 35 $ feet square the 1995 made this 40 per similar , the roles a mass the 120 $ feet square .
among his locataires , the very AT & T Canada , Clear Picture Corporation , Fonorola , regarding Communications , IBM Canada , iStar Internet , Knowledge Navigators Rehabilitation , Nova Knowledge , ACC Canada and Xerox Canada , for the in The that some of each .
using the one system of carriers optic , a powerful stretch the data is the " the provision of all the locataires , and ensuring 24 hours by the one access to Internet the little pr?s100 time , quick that the modems super .
the the so put the intranet to allow the r?seautage of the locataires .
otherwise , the the publisher the turn a market estate moribond the opportunity to the , I , the fund a centre of technology to the heart of the city of Halifax .
the initiatives the the kind , as public that private , testify the good results .
the Halifax , the rate of unemployment to the months of September was the 6,2p. per , the the rate of the lower been the World War World .
this rate is the same that the Canadian Toronto and the motion Churchill the Canadian average national the honoraria per to September .
honourable senators , we have the ability to the and the government . removals the make the so that all the Canadian , the important , they live in the country , nor the the tools the people have the to enable them potential .
the Prime Minister has been very clear in the speech , on the the speech , the Throne when he has said :
plug the Canadian - and their , with the schools and the strong , with the culture , with the board public , with the trade and with the world - is the one of the major means of hisser the Canada , the range of the economy World and the intention to the make a country . the potential . line .
we must settle the full the country . the branch? the the world .
the one time , the government has set of the goals . concrete to achieve this objective :
the to the help to decrease the use of the new reproductive the the information , we recruterons to the 10 per young Canadians who beat the Canadian training to the citizens of all the ages .
honourable senators , the skills and the formation are essential if the " means to benefit of these new opportunities .
the government has announced that he outdated the the partnership with the other provincial , the organizations public and private , the with the Canadian and the health , to the establishing a plan of action national , the Canadian expertise and the learning to the 21 century .
let - I , you quote a place addressed the the speech , the Throne :
our economy , based on the potential than that the the companies , high technology .
this is a global the prairies have the the grappes the development technologique in the small communities across the the Canada .
in fact , the motion of Economy , the public . the Canadian Technology the road to a more , governor economic in the regions primarily rural in which the export of whales the the resources cycle - agriculture , fisheries , forestry , mines and tourism - are the major sources of royalties .
the government favorisera the development and the adoption of new reproductive in all the areas .
back - in the question own province .
how the Nova Scotia Nova the occasion it ?
i would say , new that it . tirera the the benefits . concrete , honourable senators ,
the area of the energy is very bode to the Canada Atlantic .
i have severely very good hope that he extended to the region . new areas operating the research and the development , the , the their turn , could the lower by the the potential and the the applications fascinantes the the foreign the the Canada Atlantic .
the new Centre of excellence in the Canadian development and the education in the area of the oil , established to the College university the the Cape - Cape , the use of fresh the the activities of research and the development .
i have recently , the opportunity to announce the institution . the Institute of the oil and the Canada Atlantic to the University Dalhousie the Halifax .
these institutions working have the and concoctent indeed , the welfare with the great institutions of the industry . the oil the in the world .
the our attendance , the farm agricultural Revolution often to the the targets complex caract?ris?es by a growing manipul?e and the the potato not saisonni?res the great international .
the export traditional the seaway the the resources , as those of the forestry and the the mines , avoidable the impact of the research , biotechnologie .
he and fr?quent the be sitting behind a board allowing the Right the rivage in the coincidental the Lunenburg , then , cliquer the the bouton the one mouse and the exchange of the information and the the ideas with the the people wing of the other side of the planet .
honourable senators , he not enough . the person to our young the the use of a computer or the programmer a logiciel .
we must open their argument and their certainty to the potential of the world who we surrounding .
the government does this is the
in the speech , the Throne , the government announced that he will the the young Canadians , using them energy and their talents addition , overseas in recalling the Canadian and programs international the Pages and the progressive the country . " the development , the plug on Internet .
these experiences can be the one of value , as the formation concrete and direct that they provide ; and expertise learning in the other countries and the Canadian and aboriginal ; the decision of conscience that the world . , but that the shortline not be not we judge the work together .
this are there , the lessons important , Fitzpatrick our young , the leaders of tomorrow , resource the make markets our communities and our country in the 21 century .
this are there , the initiatives the ability to the the small communities that the great centres urban .
i have a confidence in the Canadian , and they have the most of the confidence in their - the .
that they live in the environment , our great delight urbain or in a little village isolated the the Atlantic or more in full forest the Canadian British - British , the message of the speech , the Throne is that the shortline not the ever been so that important in our history .
the government will the so that the Canadian , the the people living , have access to the tools the people have the to succeed in the new age entering - industrial .
it will be easy ?
this is the ever easy .
workplace . in the the , certainly , not been easy .
our ancestors the founder the country . despite the one climate very valuable , the the CTAISB disappear the voices , and the deep differences language , cultural and religious .
what was the opportunity to success ?
they not acceptaient not the be vaincus by the difficulties .
we must the the pioneers the people imagin? the country and the people realized the make a dream to the century , from the
the new pioneers are well portants and living in the region . the Atlantic or wherever the " the Canada .
these new pioneers , the CCN the dream the the 21 century , not tolerate not the proph?tes the malheurs .
honourable senators , our Gouverneure general , rendered an speech inspired the this chamber when it has dual his new the .
it has said : "
we do we not we see as a people who reacts to the trends , but as a people who are concluding .
we do we not we see as a people who reacts , but as a people who is the
the government has said , the Canadian , the country proud and vibrant driver the world in the next millennium and beyond the significance .
we should all the privileged to be in the , in the the parliamentary , the make the so that this is resident .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I wish to congratulate the Gouverneure general recently appointed and the the wish to the success wanted in his new part of Ontario , the Opposition the the state Canadian .
Ms Clarkson completing the the one of our former colleagues who has made a one personal the one falls ingrate and often , appr?ci?e the the fair value .
PuissentM. Rom?o LeBlanc and his gracieuse wife , Diana , northward a long retirement pleased to the Adriatic the the Strait of Northumberland .
the political the be the wife , grisante , and not only after the the election .
the reports of the different players , often d?natur?s by the ambitions personal , we sells often rudement the the advisory .
the success of a party politics , and collaboration of the Opposition , what the members of d?convenues or the problems personal , is increasingly rural the Canadian loyalty the the blind .
honourable senators , these remarks I come to the spirit of the following the the withdrawal suddenly the the senator Graham , the part of Leader of the government to the Senate .
during his mandate , the commitment to the senator to the respect to our institution and the Canadian Nova Scotia Nova not the ever . values each time that he is the knowledge to the Canadian ideal the objectives of the government and the Hon. party .
the qualities of Human the honour and the principles . the ever as the completion the the advisory that the months , the and his conduct copy been in amending a new , the evidence .
that he I , and the borrowing the perceived the Edmund Edmond to express my response to the limogeage if conforming the the senator Graham .
the magnanimit? the political is often the unique way of the wisdom and the greatness of a party politics . clientele by the certainty violate .
section that , the the name of the members of our caucus and the I - the , I wish to chance to the senator Boudreau the the position of Leader of the government .
however , the bonds that he is here primarily to redorer the blason the Hon. party in Nova Scotia Nova , the the the the fact , the extraordinary in the speech that he has discharged the , the few machines , is troublante , it raises the the issues of the spark in this chamber , elected in uncertainty a lightening public ?lective .
the senator Boudreau the said , ambages that he was the intent of the candidate the Canadian House of the House of the next election .
this is the my opinion as if a Chippewa the Canadian League national the hockey reappoint uphill the make chamber in a ligue mineure .
i hope that the senator Boudreau apprendra soon . appreciate the importance and the achievements of the Senate and that he is make the the the motion in this chamber , the bills of the are the best studied , the the spirit of party . is never too speech and the the blind the the government , the ministers and the honourable the second the are all treaty as the the individuals and the as the the automates , and that they will conventions , adjustments , free of the limitations cut the our colleagues in the other place .
the honourable Jeffrey and Furey , the people , and seconded the motion respecting the the Adresse the answer to the speech , the Throne , the are acquitt?s with great distinction and eloquence of their role .
he not take however , misery in their , the matter that a corvette reference to the speech , the so pes? the Governor General and the reply a licence striking with the the it has discharged , the assermentation .
the senator Jeffrey the the fact , the case , not to oversee the few 5:15 goes , and we , the one indication of the commitment deep commitment to the and the government , the the the fact , the senator Furey .
in the , they not had not the choice the one speech , the idea as the the motion immediately become a non - distance .
this , would have the one vision to the century , in the motion turn , a litanie the platitudes .
the feeling of anticipation based on the armistice PQ the proposals concrete to deal of serious problems that we greatest now .
however , the Canadian , inadequate the all , the speech , the Throne the past , silent the Agriculture the the West , the lumber the worst crisis been the years at the the fishery , the are in disarray the Canadian serious difficulties , the Immigration ill?gale , the trahit the failles the Canadian legislation Canadian , the difficulties of the companies air that , the day , the the government counted that some other types of the forces the the market . rule , and the reduction of the tax , the so that d?chiffre the few words , there are spent , will arise just before the next election .
the poverty and the fate of the fault - free not have no , eliminated .
however , he is the two areas which have been active in the speech , the Throne and the I wish to the
the Prime the Canadian statement that the the government . will the ever that the " perde the control of the Finance . the state .
he is rassurant the look that those of the same the were there , the time and the people deliberately left the Finance . the nation go to the waywardness the eventual by the , the so little not the not been easy .
i think the particular , the Prime Minister of the in the the chairman of the Council of the Treasury and Minister of the Finance in the years 70 , the many contributed to the global the the deficit budget , the the sextupl? , and the Canadian debt public net , the the doubled .
this is the government . does not , but the first , the the moon the most of the fact , the motion that the good results obtained the the plans budget and budgetary are related to the fact that the " the continued to apply to suit resolutions by the governments Mulroney , cows the Liberal were against the the time , the knowledge of reduction of the Estimates , programs under the the needs national real , the creation of a surplus of operating , the reduction of the rate of the and a reduction of the rate of inflation .
these results , the not have been able to hepatitis the the former Liberal , and the free - free - dimensional the broad deep these same members d?pensiers - are now , the basis of the political current the the government , a government , tait effront?ment the efforts representing progress by the governments Mulroney , the motion embarrassed by the subject Opposition that he has hit , these measures when they have been surtaxes , including the tax on the events and services .
in September 1990 , the Opposition the the Liberal Party was said that :
... the Government of the party is clear .
we are opposons the Canadian GST and not want to the the implementation of the .
recently , the Prime Minister has made the virtues of this tax and influencing the attempted the the clean , and the same the the equipment the reading , and that the the Stentor a vote the chamber , September .
the second point of Economic my attention of the speech . the motives , he is the the future of our country .
the government . the Canada reaffirmed . the commitment that he has made towards the utmost and all the other Canadians , the knowledge that the principle of lacked set the Canadian Court Supreme the the Canada will therefore ,
" to some comments of nuanc?s the some of the honourable the the government , said it to the in the Canadian a referendum , the government Liberal . the intent of interpret the the way of opinion of the Court Supreme the Canadian . the one vote looks to the path !
i am eagerly , the not . not a decision , but , a difference that the Court Supreme the decision .
no in this opinion . Barbados the the the Senate .
as the I , the courts . feat too far in d?passant the three issues that it was called the manner and , the advent , it involved in a debate policy , not . not the Hon. individual .
why ?
as I believe that the Court Supreme is providing too far in his set , as I am sorry to the government , the use prepared to participate in a referendum , but only to the the not to take , but the prior to the not be known !
the priority primordiale the first government national is the unity of the country , and never the not be able to refer the boilers the the supreme the same - the .
in interpr?tant the the way a series of the waves and putting the Canadian Court Supreme , the government would the effect of the same token in a walking the the expenses sir , all the Canadian .
i wish to the issue of a subject concern shared by many , the motion ? " - that the fact that the Parliament , and especially the House of the House , is the most of the d?phas? .
i do I have dissembled my admiration for the form of the Canadian and the - United , because they , based on a system of oppression the limit the excesses which the one of the powers the the status one .
the most often , the chairman and the Congress are continuing to the research , air , because all the two are the major craftsmen the the development and the the adoption clear the the legislation .
the mistakes of the executive and the camouflages not fit not inaper?us , long , because , the the less jury , the Congress the inquiry .
he does often , he is true , the the power legislative trauma exag?r?ment the advantage that he has to delay prolong a start pr?sidentielle or any other runs the the executive , but it is vindication not to the fact that the two powers are the or less the one up to equality and the cautious truly the one of the other .
the House . sitting , since I have the the government has imposed the images to the end to the debate on the bill to the C - 6 .
he has attack the in the so to the bill to the Act , with final nisga' the .
why ?
just because these projects the bill , we said , the , the summer debated the , and that a study , demonstrations the the Commons . would not the nine .
the - that opinion , clearly the contempt for the democracy Parliamentary ?
unfortunately , the Senate . was spoken to the close to the same way , he has been reminded to debate on the Canadian law C - 32 , the the Environment , and the bill to the C - 78 , the the pension .
sit?t the position , the new Minister of the Environment the announcement that the bill to the C - 32 the summer enough length debated and that no amendment . would accept .
the the committee , the majority . imposed the images , then a report unanimous the summer has the the Senate stating that the bill to the was entach? the so , minority that a review should planned immediately after his compelling .
the images the summer penalty to the third reading , the honourable served benefiting that , the so , bill to the one of many faults , he maintained higher the Canadian law existante .
in giving the bill to the C - 32 , the majority of the Senate . in the consciemment seconded a bill to the first , knowing that he would have to the subject of a review the review , the the role despair of the Senate .
this is the not at the one of the best accomplishments .
the bill to the Act , pensions the summer 2030 the the months of June to the months of September to give the the Council of the Treasury and the the Alliance the Canadian Fonction public the opportunity to the meeting of the years of the summer to seek the correct certain misunderstandings , the particular , the the touchait the amounts whenever .
the Council of the Treasury the nine the meeting of union to discuss the Canadian . , all?guant that these are belonged to the government .
the new chair of the Council of the Treasury the motion montr?e , inflexible .
the not the then the no the Canadian the judgment unanimous the the Senate .
the the years of the debate . third reading , the us . the knowledge that if the union did make extra the land respect to the share of the surplus , he should agrees a passage of justice .
that the , the Senate . " and responsibilities traditional the the chapter the the examination careful to the respect to education came to the foreign recommendation that the bill to the Senate adopted despite its weaknesses .
i have mentioned , earlier , the new leader of the government to the Senate had been impressed the Canadian amount of the the us work here , report , the the the fact , the other place .
i am the opinion that is the the motion a the September is owed more to the impatience the reciting a prorogation that the one substantive volunteered the view of reducing the contributions of the Senate to the process Parliamentary and I am sure that the the years of this new session , we reprendrons our responsibilities traditional , the in the ever , the the fact , the d?sirs the Canadian House elected .
i believe that the the the Korean thinks recommendation that the moneys the the Opposition all the allocation of Committee that it occupies except a not have not stem .
the important what observer independent . will be imposed that the allocation of Committee busy by the the chamber . my party to the years of the first session of the present Parliament , the orchestrated with distinction and the the honour to the Senate .
the attempted the deficit . excuse the contribution of the - partisans the the government to the system of the committee . heurtera the one robust resistance , but not the waywardness raisers but because the Canadian , woman the country institution based on a backbone of cooperation and the Canadian hostility step .
the the time when we were dispelled the the side of the Opposition , we have recollection many times - the the with difficulty , I , wherein - to the envy of the Canadian the obstruction to the pleasure , to the the obstruction , the the the summer the case , a good part of the years 1980 and the 1990 when the roles were overthrow .
we have worked deliberately the the rejection of two - the bill , the the Pearson Pearson and the the Airport the Canadian card campaign , because they were clearly anticonstitutionnels .
we remember , the the spirit that the political the the representatives elected to be respected , enrolled that it is timely in the limits of the Constitution .
honourable senators , the success of the Senate . the only not the the seaway the one majority of the feasibility of the bills of the " the steamship , but rather by the contribution of all the honourable the the improvement of the government legislation which we parviennent the the other place .
the region , the Opposition that a role insignificant in the process , the would enable the Senate . the image correctly , the House of the House and to the most of Surplus the most of poor the make abolish our institution .
a moment attitude the easily destroy the spirit of the cooperation and the revised the , he is ironic the the plight , not . not foreign to the respect to the Opposition for the Senate , a boon that the majority , I , will , continue to share .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . )
bill to the chronic the decision of some decisions medical
second reading of Second the the debate
the honourable senators , the bill to the S - 2 , for the Canadian institutions the decision of making medical by the the patients in extending the entire responsibility criminal the coping the globe the fundamental the people patients .
the specific , the bill to the clarifie the legislation . perpetuate the coping the the abstiennent the agency a single the floor to the request of the patient or in interrompent the board , or the administrent the the Bureau to the inevitable the high pain verbal .
this bill to the rules also that the Minister of the health , and the the lines guidelines Finance and promote the turn and the formation respect to the forbearance the agency of the treatment of survival , the subject of pain and the agency of the care palliative or the their interruption .
the bill to the S - 2 , the the CHST abr?g? is the chronic the decision of some decisions medical , is the third bill to the Canadian . such a be introduced in this chamber . years in the
honourable senators , the 27 November 1996 , I have the the bill to the S - 13 , to the Constitution the Code offence ( Article the the coping ) .
this bill to the motion remained in the last of the outbreak of the election federal , May 1997 .
the the years of the last session of the present Parliament , the senator r Lavoie - Roux the report of the Canadian law S - 29 , the one of the objective General , the bill to the S - 13 , the protection of the patients and the the coping .
the bill to the S - 29 is death to the Order of the Canadian prorogation the the Parliament , September .
the my opinion , the bill to the S - 2 , the chronic the decision of some decisions medical , int?gre the best of the bills of the S - 13 and S - 29 .
however , I wish to the Senate . clear to all the honourable that I do as the the bill to the as the hall .
i the very as the bill to the Canadian the Committee Special the the Senate on the Euthanasia and the assistance to the suicide .
he is the negotiation of the work of the former senator Joan Neiman , the the honourable Lavoie - Roux , Corbin , Beaudoin , DeWare , Keon and I - the , since I have served in the committee , I also .
if I devais balladeer the bill to the " that a , the would the the late Senator No Francophone , the , the the the not the not a " the full of the committee , the replaced her the senator DeWare many months , for the it solve the husband patient , and the the continued to go with us to the the the the Senate , the same the the actions with a medical seeks .
the honourable senators soon . the bill to the S - 2 begin by a preamble .
the lines February 1994 , the committee on Special the the Euthanasia and the assistance to the suicide the summer set for the the issues legal , social and ethics the the Euthanasia and the the assistance to the suicide .
they have the " and care palliative and the the refusal of order to osteoporosis destined to maintain the part ingenuity or the the Supreme the the kind of treatment .
they have the " the Governments of the pain .
the 6 June 1995 , the committee has submitted , the Senate , report entitled : " Yes the life and the Canadian death to the
the I , the preamble of the bill to the motion essential to give the the Senate . deserves the the standing of full , the
some editors of legislation . put not the pr?ambules .
however , in the case , the the not . not only positive , but it makes justice . the committee , the the working very hard .
i wish to speak to point offered the the bill to the S - 2 .
the article 2 , the bill to the rules that no sponsor of care of health . " be found guilty of a violation the Constitution of the Code offence for the CRTC to a person of the Bureau with the intent of moral or the make meaningful his illness physical , the Canadian and remedies making abr?ger his life .
in the report entitled : " Yes the life and the Canadian death to the the committee on Special does the Canadian practice which is the subject of patient the manner in moral the suffering , the so it is abr?ger the life of the patient , is now turned .
the Code offence not attend not the care palliative , the so that the abr?ger the life of the patient , in the the the care . Service of the act to the practical medical generally interprovincial .
however , a number of the witnesses . said , the committee that the doctors h?sitaient often to manage enough to dispense antidouleur if it walked the abr?ger the life of the patients , the fear of the viewpoint criminellement did the the Late the people patients .
the very large witnesses , with described the confusion the atmosphere as the the professional the Canadian health , the the public . the people in general as the Canadian legality the Canadian practice , the committee on Special the recommendation to the unanimous that the provisions appropriate to the Code offence that clarified .
many are the doctors , sp?cialisant in the care palliative the Ports that the treatment of the pain . abr?ge have the life of the patient .
the some evidence collected , when the routing the the Bureau is the courts , the patients . adaptent simply the Canadian cigarettes increased the the Bureau administered .
however , we do the we no evidence and , the my opinion , that the motion . the true . .
all the the us are , we should ensure the the the the patients the the Canada suffering the least possible .
the committee on the motion . the only to clamour that the clarifie the provisions of the Code offence the Criminal the Canadian of the agency a single the , the in att?nuant the pain , would the abr?ger the life of the patient .
the board of reform of the right , articulate the same recommendation in a report that it has sometime in 1983 .
the most , the Association medical Canadian hardware the definitions of the bill in the area for 1992 .
the committee on Special flies the " the general , the treatment destined to occur the suffering the , but the article 2 , the bill to the motion relating to the " expelling the situations where the the Bureau are administered to occur the the suffering ?motionnelles or psychological .
the my opinion , he is user of prudence and nothing in the bill to the not be creating the controversy , and yet we know , the the treatment of the suffering ?motionnelle or psychological prepared to the controversy .
the article 2 . protects not the coping in the case where he could be a one another such a responsibility criminal , as the neglect officers .
honourable senators , meaning - I , " the article 2 . the GST no not to the case where he is the intent of insulin the death .
he not to apply to the the case where the " means inevitable the suffering verbal the the patient .
he is very important to the point .
none . should 8.4 the the responsibility officers , the intent is the killing that a .
the rule 4 ) 1 ) the the bill to the S - 2 the the the soignant not . not guilty of a violation meeting , the Code offence of the only the the " the request of a person able , he is abstient the the agency a single the floor or in abrupt the board .
the rule 4 ) 2 ) clarifie the circumstances in which a request . considered valid the the purpose of the rule 4 ) 1 ) .
the the instructions stating pre , especially the the legislation . the province , will always above .
the most of the provinces have already passed the the provisions legislation on the instructions pre .
the Alberta . the last province , the report of the " is the ; the effect , the Personal Guidelines occurrences , the proclaimed and the coming to effect of 1 December 1997 .
the Manitoba , Newfoundland - Newfoundland , the Nova Scotia Nova , the Ontario and the Quebec . , l?galis? the drafting of the the the " what the in the niceties , the testaments biological .
the British - British and the the Island , Prince Edward Island , Prince the report of the legislation . the federal , but those of the not have not yet , into the
the values of Energy stating data pr?alablement under the the legislation . the province , the the ball stating not official or a request the resolutions or by showing , in attendance of the the least one witness , they a request valid .
the rule 4 ) 3 ) provides that a place to the be made by a agent , a representative legal or a joint , but only the the patient not the not the ability to the make or if the years , he , was able , he not the not the Canadian the floor .
in the report entitled : " Yes the life and the Canadian death to the the committee on Special the positioning the forbearance the treatment of survival as the the fact , not . begin a single adequate the preserve the patient , and , by the not . trying to extreme cardiorespiratoire ( RCR ) , not . to a blood therapy , not . agency of antibiotics or not . the the food and the hydratation artificielles .
he has repeatedly the aviation as the fact , banned a single adequate the preserve the patient , and , by the d?brancher the respirateur .
the committee on Special the importance that the courts Canadian . recognized the the patients the right to law started the turn a single medical or the papers that a single , a time began , the interrompu .
in the the business as Malettec. Schulman , in 1990 , Charge B . R H?tel - God the Quebec , in 1992 and the the case Rodriguez , in 1993 , the courts have established recognized the right , the so , adjustments the this forbearance or the this interruption of treatment of survival is the death .
i think that he is important to get on some of these cases with you .
in the case Mallettec. Schulman , in 1990 , the Court of Appeal of the Ontario , said that the instructions the the blood transfusions data for the one suggest , was able whatever be followed , the so it is the not the ability to take a decision .
the courts . necessary to the doctor was wondering the instructions stating the one witness the J?hovah the leading the risks therapy , the in a situation . emergency the Canadian suggest that could give his genuine .
the the words of the decision that it has made in January 1992 in the case Nancy B . , the Court Superior the the Quebec . necessary to the suggest adulthood able , enjoyed the one aging incurable and alit?e to the Canadian reseller the the day , the the right to ask that the doctor d?branche the respirateur the Canadian maintenait the life .
in Cuban his decision , the Krever Dufour the arts and 7 , the Code Civil the the Quebec , which the human consumption is inviolable and quite not be a forced to lose a single , the consent .
this matter address the Canadian the responsibility officers of the doctor the " , the Canadian the Canadian Nancy B . , d?brancher the respirateur .
after the be stands the the GST 216 , 217 , 45 and 219 the the Code offence , and that the the provisions on the the homicide , the Krever has signed the one doctor not was not the Canadian a highly unreasonable , gratuite or entailed in d?branchant the respirateur the one suggest to the request of the - the and the culmination the disease of the suggest " the years natural .
in 1993 , Mr. the Krever Sopinka , the Canadian Court Supreme the the Canada , the the doors the decision majority in the case Rodriguez , the well known the right to the patients the not . loans to a single or the authority to the treatment the interrompu , the so , died be in revisited .
he is important to the council that , in the case , the majority . was not in favour of the Euthanasia and the the assistance to the suicide .
it was not in favour of the right to the forbearance or the the aviation the the treatment , the the motion of the Canadian the bill to the " the study .
however , honourable senators , the the witnesses . " the the committee Special that , in some cases , the not had not complied the Whole the the patients because the the Code offence not the not clear and that the coping emissions the be accountable did .
the case of these matters the Canadian confusion the long among the coping and the people in general , the committee on Special the recommendation to get the the unanimous that the way started in effect that codifi?e the way to clarify the circumstances in which he is pervasive acceptable the not . provide or the conceiving a single the floor .
the that , the committee on the was not the Prime the task that the right to clarifi? in the area .
in 1983 , the board of reform of the right to the Canada was recommended it also that the Code offence the clarifi? the this regard .
since 1992 , the Association medical Canadian economy . the Code offence the clarifi? the the the concerns of the legal the end of the one aging to the end of coping the the homeless the the court .
honourable senators , the article 6 , the bill to the S - 2 . the most bel example of the fusionnement the my bill to the distinct , the S - 13 , and the the bill to the Canadian the senator Lavoie - Roux , the S - 29 .
the bill to the S - 29 provided the institution . lines guidelines for the treatment of the pain and the the forbearance and the aviation the treatment of survival .
the article 6 , the present Bill , the rules that the Minister of the health essentially , in cooperation with the authorities provincial and the Friends of the professional the Canadian health , the the lines guidelines Finance respect to the forbearance and the the aviation the treatment of survival , the the treatment of the pain and the the care palliative .
the bill to the basis to the Minister of the health of eradicating and the occasional the education . the great public and the formation of the professional the Canadian health the the treatment of the pain and the care palliative .
the bill to the rules also that the " monitors the number of the the the , will have forbearance or interruption of the treatment of survival and that the " At the the investigation and that the " it . the research , this effect .
in the report entitled : " Yes the life and the Canadian death to the the committee Special the the Senate . recognized the importance of airlines guidelines Finance in the areas .
the many witnesses who are concluded the the committee . recommended that the giving more of information and the formation the the commission of care of health on the care palliative and the control of the pain .
almost all the witnesses who have appeared before the committee Special the the Senate . canvassing the " that the the research , academic were required in the areas .
honourable senators , the bill to the S - 2 . the result direct the the work of the committee Special the the Senate on the Euthanasia and the suicide attended .
the my opinion , he comes to get the Canadian and two - the bill previous the people were made to the Senate .
he is the clarify the right p?nal the codifiant the way started existante and the Canadian up accessible and understandable to all the Canadian , to the protection of caring and their providers of care of health .
i want to await the debate on the bill to the .
this , is the important , the I want to await the study in committee , the " chair and thereby this bill to the most appropriate .
i am particularly pleased to the participation of the senator Lavoie - Roux , the , as I , if the the recommendations of the committee Special the the Senate becoming the .
this bill to the not . " - be not yet precise . the the need .
unfortunately , in the the ones human , we do we not infallible .
i hope that the committee on the the business legal and Constitutional chair the bill to the facts to the the government that he does the the needs of the Canadian and that he is winds of the amendments to the latest the the need .
i wish to the bill to the Senate also a that he can the be , and I know that is the so that the desire to the senator Lavoie - Roux and the the other members of the committee Special the the Senate .
i hope that we can refer the bill to the opportunity to the committee to the Hon. the , the , the by the nature , will . the time , so at the delay , before the the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional , recognized for his long hours and the schedule responsible , not be the the actions with the job falls the the government legislation . ' initiated .
honourable senators , I would suggest to examine the bill to the S - 2 and I would urge the the support .
the Honourable Douglas Roche :
her the senator would the it . In the one issue ?
the senator Carstairs :
certainly .
the senator Roche :
thank .
i wish to first thoughts my appreciation to the senator Carstairs , the Privy the it has made in the likelihood the bill to the .
i hope that he is a one debate thorough the this important issue and that the not cherchera not to the Upholder the the bill to the " the host , to the " that ample the opportunity , as the the reading of the second reading of the Senate that the the reading of the study in committee , the in the the examination that he deserves .
in turn of preparation the question contribution to the debate . the night , I wish question two questions . the senator Carstairs , if it . " . .
the first , the senator Carstairs , the fault unequivocal that the bill to the elimination the harshness the pain and the " ?courter the life , but as the fact , Sixtus the pain the have to the Canadian ?courter the life , the senator Carstairs lead the it is that can open the door to the suicide attended ?
it has said very clearly that the the treatment representing the banquet the life . the not necessary to a point of the d?ontologique , but , in the treatment of the patients in due seeks , not there has the not a danger that the various pressure the integrity so discussions , a form of praise or the pressure in favour of the use of Veterinary att?nuant the pain the Canadian and for secret , or the Canadian and for the d?clar?es openly , the consistent in the " ?courter the life ?
the senator Carstairs :
honourable senators , I thank the senator , his question , because the purpose is prepared the part essential to the Canadian . .
this is why we must be the the lines guidelines and the the average of control .
i renverrais the senator to the cat?chisme the the Church Catholic , including the the article 2279 , because the Canadian difference . is enough clear stated .
the cat?chisme that section :
the so , died . ineligible imminente , the not be legitimately interrupt the care ordinary the terminally the one patient .
the use of analg?siques to ease the suffering of the mourant , the " the risk of abr?ger the day , the be considered morally consistent the Canadian dignity human , if the death . is not deal as a late or a way .
the I , the kind of administrative is the necessary to the the bill to the not the news not , we must be to the it is found .
i think that is the previous the case , but if the modifions - the to the the Senate no clear .
the senator Roche :
i thank the Honourable Senator .
the answer is certainly offer to the importance of the debate .
my second question the Act , Code offence .
i do see no , the basis of the Canadian law creating the codifier the way started existante or the cultivation some actions which could it be viewed as the the actions criminals . the " amend the Code offence , the same .
why is the " Could the Constitution the Code offence , permission the bill to the ?
the senator Carstairs :
honourable senators , the one time , I thank the Honourable Senator the the question .
he is interesting the point that , in the Prime bill to the the I have the , he is the one amendment of the Code offence .
however , the the years of the debate and the the discussions , the Senate , and also by the following , in the bill to the Canadian the senator Lavoie - Roux , he is much clear that we wanted more than a change the the Code offence .
we tentions also the establishing of the lines guidelines Finance and the end of the Canadian and the Canadian Air and the make the Canadian and experience and the the Senate . R the the control of the pain .
( the Canadian motion of the senator DeWare , the the name of the senator Lavoie - Roux , the debate is adjourned . )
the strategy of the housing for the aboriginal
inquiry - Adjourned the the debate
the Honourable Thelma J . Chalifoux , pursuant to the opinion , the 14 October 1998 :
the honourable senators , he is difficult to the most of the Canadian of understanding why he agrees the the differences between the conditions of life and the challenges of the aboriginal and those of the other individuals the the Canada .
he is also difficult to them . understand why he is the Canadian and redundant different in the Canadian the situation , the the rights , the the values and the the potential of the aboriginal .
it is the - be difficult to understand , but it is essential to the understanding to the stabilization the revised .
the strategy of the housing to the basis , the recent judgments of the government , allow the latest the conditions of housing the the families aboriginal and if the important improvements to be made to the strategy federal at the
this document the work is destined to facilitate a real dialogue the the major accessible the one strategy , we will allow the the next century and the Canadian telecommunications the Canadian the end of the .
we have chosen to us stop the the forces the all the Aboriginal the the Canada and the suggestions the the forces to the provinces , a strategy contemporary .
a source of which sometimes confess and the Canadian side . the political and the right to the Aboriginal Peoples , the M , the Inuit and the members of the First Nations - the IPU and the end of the people own solutions .
this is that which the the Communist the launch with great the hundreds of initiatives from the Canadian telecommunications .
sometimes , they have been g?n?es by the the tracasseries administrative or not have been discussions to a reason whatever .
the other initiatives from the the aboriginal them , the people resulted the charter of the facilities regional and then national , and that the the institutions important to which we comptons now .
if we can best combiner the point strong the the aboriginal and the the Canadian , the and relieve these criminals to improve the housing , we will the many more than anyone could the , expect .
i will now I look the Canadian Grain and the subject of the strategy , the Canadian housing for the families aboriginal .
some may think that we do we not need to a place on the the conditions of housing or a study on the ways of change the program national in the hope that the families aboriginal so , from some benefit .
we are the agreement .
too , these studies have already been conducted and the leading to a low improvement of the conditions of life .
the most , we have all have blessed the the advice and the Canadian research , much of the board Royal the the Aboriginal Peoples , in 1996 .
we adverse now , first accomplishments of the government to Strength our forces to the the plan of action that the government , the terrorist the January 1997 .
we had hoped that the other partners in the Confederation annonceraient them as their plans and their priorities .
the the chapter , we are disappointed .
some progress are easily , but many senators , leaders aboriginal the concern to the in the Canadian the lack of the facts taken to improve the conditions of housing the the families aboriginal .
we want flourishing a dialogue national the Canadian need to establish a strategy clear and the dynamic in the Canadian housing for the families aboriginal .
we want us stop the the direction future of a strategy for the families alive the the foreign the the reserves and the the land implemented the side to the Aboriginal Peoples in the part of agreements on the land claims concern .
the families aboriginal alive the the land . , the the words of treaties and the Canadian law , the the conditions of housing the different . the ones of the families alive the .
what the the in the , the strategy , the Canadian housing must be the Canadian and mouvements the people on the land .
many of M , the Inuit and the members of the First Nations will leave of communities ancestrales to seek the the work , the the opportunities prometteuses and the the housing eye in the great and small cities of the Canada .
this is a trend growing the will the objective .
the record , as the their rate of natalit? is taxable the Canadian average national , the as the number of their age . the high , since the people aboriginal is 10 years , young that the people in general .
he is the 50 years , the d?nombrait the Canadian 200 $ aboriginal .
today , the the , in the most of 1 million , live in the Canada .
this figure . includes not however , people of the M the the country .
many of the aboriginal live in the United - United and the or not get the the country , their years of the .
the rules that the people aboriginal will increase drama $ the " the years of the next generation .
the conditions Social and economic not found that the modest improvements .
a strategy , the Canadian housing reasonable must be responding to the needs future meet the Canadian public aboriginal and the the new priorities .
i will now explain why the conditions and the problems of housing the the aboriginal are different .
a reason important to the most of the half of the families aboriginal live today , in the the housing lower the the standards . the great poverty persistante .
many are often on the point of the widespread in the street or will live in the the communities rural , urban and vital have surpeupl?es .
the jobs that the aboriginal find the difficulty Elizabeth and they must use the the maximum their cheque the paye to respond to the needs basic , food and the height of families , many of the average .
the high that the income of employment of the aboriginal 24 , the two third of the Canadian the average national .
the Canadian 40 per - and their not had not the income of employment in 1995 .
they have a or not the credit .
that arriverait - the so , aboriginal whatever to the 50 with the Canadian to the federal - job and the salaries ?
obviously , it . commensurate a level of life higher and the the Canada . profiterait .
in 1991 , the former Minister of the Foreign Indian and the the North Canadian , Thomas Siddon , stated that , the the , the 50 of this , year 2000 , the product national product of the Canada would the increase the income tax . the government , the 4,3 billion . $ and the deficit the debt national the 20 billion . $ .
the commission Royal , is providing the the home analysis on the point .
it has esteemed that he , cost to the Canada 7,5 billion . $ double as the the circumstances economic and Technology , the Aboriginal Peoples demeureraient pushed the Canadian average national .
he is the note that is $ 250 the one loss of income net of 2,9 billion . $ to the Aboriginal Peoples , combin?e the one cost tax . 4,6 billion . $ , there was 2,1 billion . $ the form of lack of gain to the government .
unfortunately , a strategy to the answer to the needs of the Canadian housing will close with a problem of poverty aigu? the the aboriginal , because the way . related to the disparit?s economic and Technology of the people in general and the aboriginal will soon destroyed .
the recent increases the the rate of literacy and the the levels of education . General help some families , but the housing examinations privatization inabordables to a well enough , many of Aboriginal .
the 1954 economic and the transfers . too slowly to the years of the 20 years in the lurch that the the " the motion relating to the problem of the poverty , the aboriginal .
some of the evident that the other .
the whole , these reasons , caused . the difficulties .
if we want us stop the one strategy , the Canadian housing the primacy the Canadian and strong underpinnings , he would gain the review of the the reasons .
the discrimination the all its forms remains the one of the causes the 269 the reality in the the housing the the aboriginal .
it was the this time , designation the Corporation core of commonly and the housing .
in the 30 years , later , the program of housing rural the the intent of the aboriginal the view of the .
the Program of housing the the aboriginal the environment urbain the follow the 1978 .
the new commitments to the Canadian housing in the part of these programs . the end of the time that the government , the aisles of the Canadian and commitments to the Canadian housing social the 1 January 1994 . Pendant the the length , the program of housing the the aboriginal not the ever . the subject of a test .
the disparit?s held also to the low priority leave to the issues of housing the the aboriginal .
this situation could the the onus by the lack of equal aboriginal the the Parliament of the Canada and the participation of the aboriginal the Canadian public service federal .
the arcanes the the power rely , the aboriginal to bring the attention of the problems matching or the people solutions .
it off . the easily the forgotten the conditions in which they shacks .
just the the time when the Canadian watching the be more aware of the needs of the aboriginal , the priorities Finance . This .
this situation unwitting the the the conditions of life navy the the Canadian ?clipsent the fact , the aboriginal .
honourable senators , the idea that the the problems aboriginal and the solutions to the changes . doing that a firm reduced the the problems existing and the the solutions to make the the international the the Canada is a place because the main the latest census and accomplishments to the public . the companies aboriginal .
no . the " that the one such strategy that the Canadian good results of the years of the years .
in fact , the motion of model not having the Canadian credibility , and the important study of the conditions Social and economic , there was the study of December 1998 , the clochardise , mea the adoption of strategies separate to be the Canadian and costing concerning the opposite the aboriginal .
the the Canadian and services to the aboriginal that appeared the state of the program of the Canadian the housing , the political and programs . basic are those who are designed to deal of problems , aboriginal , and the governments federal and provincial and the the managers .
the problems of federal relating to the housing the the aboriginal standard the the Act , land r?serv?es the the effect we attended insurmountable .
the most of the authorities provincial , land and aboriginal the in RRSPs essentially the the government , the
yet , the transfer of the , the point of Tax , the powers and the board encouraged more of responsibility to the provinces .
this cash the skills raises the controversy and freine the callous the the matter .
this is the that the few of acknowledgement of the reasons , 269 the differences observed the the CHST the the housing the the aboriginal and the the difficulties invitations the the CHST by the last .
we are submitting in the hope that they are investing to find the the solutions future . the problem of the housing .
he not there was not the weather intentions the the beginning .
the reasons historic and juridico - political , the poverty , the the impuissance and the the blood subis by the companies aboriginal reviewers a place . - the people of the commission Royal the inquiry and the evidence of many leaders aboriginal .
he will be the the the reasons pr?pond?rantes dirty the first , ordinary the the status socio?conomique Churchill the the aboriginal today , the
honourable senators , I wish to speak briefly the the consequences of the strategies federal fellow .
the strategies federal - and 25 years in the summer reduced the one succumb the grants for the the correspondence , the , the the repair the emergency , a corvette program of building domiciliaire , a program specific the construction of housing in mid urbain , a program of building the environment rural , for sober a rate of occupation the 50 per - and housing by the the aboriginal , the the credits the tax , the the Income to the housing , and the the bills of self - estimates , including the Belgian the Canadian ownership , the people . Underscores fire .
the authorities provincial and municipal the part of the Estimates incurred , but the part only .
the CHST the example , the program of housing the the aboriginal the environment urbain not the summer presumably that the the loyers paid by the aboriginal and the the grants federal .
the the committee tripartites the summer constitu?s , which participaient in some cases of the licensing of the .
the the Estimates , spending recent the Canadian CMHC the the aboriginal out reservations were the Canadian a difference Annual the the Order of 172,5 million . $ the the CHST the the housing .
the program , substantial the construction , unions urbain and unemployment the fishing the Canadian and families aboriginal the living in the the housing the price reasonable .
Quelque10 8,700 housing urban are USA the Canadian and families aboriginal ; it is a the housing social built and managed by a 100 of companies , and the profit .
some 9 per other housing built in mid rural are busy by the the families aboriginal .
the most of the " through the Canadian and programs . the " the Belgian the Canadian ownership .
these figures vary the Canadian source and the doctors , the many leaders aboriginal .
this are there , the umbrella of the results positive the the strategies federal identify .
the that he is added the results positive the program of allegiance , the repair the emergency , the research and the d?monstration , the forgotten the program , the intent of the people seniors and the the people disabilities .
the most and those who is conna?traient not the 1954 Depression in the conditions of housing , a series of Internet found in Printed .
i d?poserai the room attached .
honourable senators , that the the 1954 are major not enough . " that the life difficult to slow the M , the Inuit and the Aboriginal the the First Nations .
a family aboriginal the three the one need hearing of housing , compared to a family , aboriginal the ten .
the need hearing of housing . the extent fundamental to determine the one family 21.2 in the the conditions pushed the Canadian normal and not the not the average of the quality of greater habitable get .
he is the ten , about according $ 9,300 aboriginal had a need hearing of housing .
the people . increased and the percentage of the families with a need hearing of housing , three times . high that the average national .
the number of Diaspora not committees of increased .
the report of December 1998 , the group of the Canadian the mayor the the fault - free of Toronto indicates a place impact of the strategies the people failed in the area .
in 1996 , some 4 per aboriginal were without the homeless in the only the Canadian Toronto .
some 8 per other risquaient the the widespread in this situation , there was the many children .
he is proven that the situation which climate the Toronto , apparent the same the the years in the other cities , including the six other cities Canadian , are dens?ment peupl?es the aboriginal .
a native the five 21.2 in seven salmon patterns .
this are there , the numbers eradicate , but it is to continually more the effects of the strategies federal fellow if we want from the the lessons of the mistakes and the the opportunities condemn and negative the the point strong .
a the the point strong , the motion of evolution of the companies aboriginal the housing .
these companies , are disclosed , insofar and fiables .
the Hon. the Speaker :
senator Chalifoux , I am sorry to you interrupt , but your 15 minutes are minute .
farming - you the authority to continue ?
the senator Chalifoux :
yes .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Chalifoux :
i would thank , honourable senators ,
the the hundreds and the the hundreds of volunteers the work of their time to the companies , the Canadian dozen the employee trying to the ambulance the managing the Senate . build , the preserve the squirrel the housing and the quality of the services to the locataires and the the applicants .
the matter urbain the the only worth now , the 500 million . $ .
the one range of the are available by the staff , the and the other service . availability by the University of a system perpetrators established of various charitable the services aboriginal , the the prairies the the program , the Program of the pr?scolaire the the aboriginal , the activities cultural , the formation and the lack the the the services and operations of the locations the favourable the case afforded .
the the Post are created in the area of the construction and the the face , the the aviation are guaranteed the Canadian and business , the the magazines fonci?res and the the tax . doctoral , and especially , the the families have the opportunity to the other , personally and the the free the the market private .
i can you about the one family , by the .
the Canadian first time , I can buy the the oranges to my children . "
they expect the in the Canadian opportunity to the .
this is a wonderful to the strengthening their identity , a way essential to keep the young people to the homeless the the weather situations in which the odd . the young , and that the disclaimer to the school .
a modest housing in the best unequal the the Canadian tranquility of mind and a feeling of security , the women , the the children and the the Seniors aboriginal .
these results . the not the news , but they have made the life better to many of people and they have created a consistent and a desire to do . more .
the relationship remain , m?diocres of the aboriginal and some government local , but they can become best with the time .
the the least , the problems of housing and the companies , habitation the fishing the crushing a dialogue , if no - to the person to build .
the companies , habitation aboriginal facilities also something that the odd .
this is the only institution , the one profile the Order of the families aboriginal and the Food the way of the deputy easily .
their understaffed the armistice , jointes the ones of the locataires existing , and allow the in the one of the comments of thousands of families aboriginal and the comments of the evolution of their medical the existence .
it is a tool important to coordinator the services to the most tall in the corporation aboriginal .
what are the choice for a future strategy to the answer to the needs of the aboriginal the federal - activated and the the new priorities ?
the conditions gloomy the housing that are the Aboriginal Peoples backed the papers that the homicide the the government .
despite this , the other priorities the people on the protracted the attention .
the Canadian and figures recent , 46p. per - and children aboriginal the least , five years , live in the great salmon patterns live in the the families 9,300 .
this rate of seven time , per to the people in general .
in the one third of all the children aboriginal live in the the families 9,300 .
the most of the families 9,300 the " and lead a woman .
he will put in the one strategy extremely , coordinated to satisfy the the needs of these families , the Canadian housing and the health , for life , their needs Cultural and economic and the island to the needs of the young children .
the trend size the highlights the young age of the people aboriginal , and the trend the prospect .
the number of children of the Canadian five years , woman aboriginal the age of procr?er is 70 time , high that the rate for the total of the people of the
the the salaries there and a rate of unemployment rate . accessible among the young , the most welcome to young people .
since the the the summer the end to the construction of new housing subsidized the 1994 , the list of the aboriginal the armistice the one housing the motion allong?e .
he is clear that the squirrel the housing social present . " welcome to mainland aboriginal or not the magnitude not .
these past years , the provinces have reduced their commitments or the people in the and the not there is the figure reliable the the number of families aboriginal log?es in the the housing social .
he is the make out that the housing social are lenders the Canadian telecommunications . the integrity of the solvabilit? and the the floor of the income , the the funeral the access to the aboriginal the Canadian and housing subsidized regarding the the only the aboriginal .
the commission Royal the esteemed that he will be the building 17 per new housing and the way to the major the Canadian redress the 37 per other for the Asian the backlog of 1996 and 2016 .
in addition , 21 bracket new Diaspora related to the growth size and the Canadian training the new families will also need to help .
the assistance financial , the level of life of these people should reduce the , and the number of families in the need to increase .
the Canadian , the the decisions taken recently , the government , the Canadian and the to the board of the housing social and the transferred to the provinces , the recipient this arrangement .
the Ontario , the Quebec , the British - British and the Alberta , now upon the this essence .
the agreements of transfer automobiles the program of housing for the aboriginal in the coastal rural and urban .
the process of transfer the winds looking the mother and the differences between the CMHC and the commission of housing aboriginal .
the , the companies urban the housing aboriginal the pr?conis? the the transfer direct the the companies , housing aboriginal by the University of M negotiated and the one board national the coordination .
this position is the documented and the disease the Canadian political the transfer of the program , the provinces .
this kind of arrangement the Canadian and precedents , in the locations the formation and the favourable .
the argumentations , the transfer federal , the provinces are historic , constitutional and deep enracin?s in the objectives of autod?termination the the Aboriginal Peoples .
they insistent , the the lack of consultation the the respect to the transfer .
the francophonie consultation are a principle sir in the evolution of the relationship with the Aboriginal Peoples and a principle seconded by the Court Supreme the the Canada in the the judges as the judgment Sparrow .
he is the so , the reasons of political and the functioning daily the Canadian challenge of the transfer provincial .
in the , no . prove that the provinces have more agency of the program that the companies urban the housing aboriginal .
no assessment independent . the the ever revealed not more .
the fight , the record that the the government key as the institution . the monthly the basis of the income of the locataires can be changed unilaterally to the goodwill the the provinces .
the CMHC the attempted the government to the companies , housing for aboriginal that their interests in their conserving the housing are protected in the agreements of transfer and that they not to the collection not more difficult .
these assurance the summer . , convaincantes .
they believe that the right , the m?rit? , the other . the decisions are the same .
if they smoke . conclude the the agreements with the provinces or with the authorities local by the following , the will be doing , a choice based on their political and the people in the
the question is the knowledge , he is cancel the transfer of the program aboriginal and reach the the agreements of transfer with the companies , housing for aboriginal the the wish or deliver the place , strategic federal - per - and responsibilities to the provinces .
the very strong arguments were the Criminal the vote of the replacement , by a model aboriginal , the the model of the needs hearing the extent the character affordable , the Fur the the needs and the standards of Alternative in the corporation Canadian .
the Canadian and why evident , the model quoting the well , the safety of the family and the the practical cultural .
he refl?terait better the fact aboriginal when he is a the assessment the needs and the developing the the strategies for the answer .
he would the applicant to the future of the strategies the the housing for 50 of the objectives that work . the the companies , housing the not have the little about the interprovincial by the governments .
in pursuing these objectives , the ultimate the the shelters the the aboriginal , the Permanent the Canadian and needs of the great - parents and the the Seniors , the the practical spirituelles , the the access to the activities cultural , the the program of the small worker and the the services aboriginal the the assistance financial and the assistance in the Canadian job .
the strategy of housing should be more to the Canadian protect the families of the spot and the Canadian violence the provinces have the victims of the Canadian and heritage aboriginal .
the changes made to the Act national the the habitation and the Canadian Act , the Corporation Canadian of commonly and the housing , the people from the Royal Assent the 17 June 99 , the the " the CMHC the the tools the base for granting the the assistance and deal with the the types the many of organizations , if the in paying the testimony of the officials of the CMHC , the people were heard by the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology the 9 June 99 . This to overcome facilitera the - be the transfer of powers real and the one some failed to a new port aboriginal the the housing .
this strategy 24 , the main recommendation that the propriety the committee Standing the the business people in 1992 , the long proceedings and consultations .
the committee , set of the Canadian all the parties , the one other recommended that the funding of the housing aboriginal the CRTC the the through the one only body which the mandate sell the licensing of loans , the assurance , the development of political , the decision of making , the management of programs , the research , the formation , the development economic and the funding .
the the years of a recent convention the the housing organized by the Assembly of the First Nations , the leaders have pr?conis? a structure similar to satisfy the the needs of the members of the First Nations .
the new port aboriginal the the housing would independent and would the ability to do the the legislation to the aboriginal .
it would also the power to negotiate the the agreements with the the departments federal and that the coordinator or the quality of the the thousands of families of the services of training and the lack , the the services relating to the development of the young children , the the services of health and the education and the the assistance to the development of the business .
a moment strategy would also to the companies , the housing the make the with the resources financial the their clause .
the difference between the rate cr?diteur federal and the rate d?biteur federal the use the fund . the homes and the support the research on the best initiatives and the management .
it would also the developing the new and the events drawn the the purchase mortgage to help the families aboriginal .
these services be englober the Upholder and the face of local to the students and the care of health , because he would be the best use of the 200 million . $ that spans the government , for these local .
honourable senators , the transfer of these attributions federal the the make a that he be necessary to adopt the new provisions legislation .
he would probably the the Prime Minister of pr?vale the the powers that the authority to the Act , restructurations and the transfer of attributions in the board public , and that the first , safeguards by the the agreements of cash examinations .
the long term , the the introduction and the Canadian new provisions legislation to the goodies the existence of authority local people in the Canadian housing , management of the powers , the part and the fleet the the plan legal would collegial .
these conventions local . will the Canadian and corporations , and profit and they could harmonize the the business and the the jobs in their communities .
they will the " the the autod?termination the the aboriginal .
this is the the legislators that he do now , to the implementation of strategic aboriginal overall audacieuse or the just draft the strategy federal existante .
the government . dealt the the serious circumstances that poverty the families evidence of the widespread in the street , or the , are already , there was the families aboriginal .
we believe that , in the great cities , the system , provides the the services to the fault - free aboriginal is the key to the strategy to the help those without the homeless and that the synthetic the money scheme should be to the the way of the system .
the research related to the original that he is developing , fairly a strategy and a plan of action to the in the Canadian and redundant the the problem none .
the the the health Canada has said that a home adequate was precedent to the health , the problem of the fault - free require the Canadian and the members taken as now .
we must examine seriously the recommendations made by the Canadian students , the investigation and the evidence to the present the the advice specific .
the recommendations and the plan of action undoubtedly the Minister responsible for the fault - free .
this study . the not be rel?gu?e the the oubliettes .
in the the Canadian and parliamentary , we must not only answer to the need none , but also develop a plan of action , will the all the families aboriginal the place , and standing in the corporation Canadian .
the companies , housing for the aboriginal facilities a expertise .
they have only need to a chance and the one transfer of skills to do their work .
honourable senators , I - I , leave of correspondence the room attached the I have heard ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Chalifoux :
thank .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Rompkey , the debate is adjourned . )
( the Senate . adjourned . the 1998 3 November 99 , the 13 at 1:30 . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 5
the 1998 3 November 99
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the dumping
the crisis crop at
the leave of 3:15 under the the article 60 the the Rules to the review of the matter of the public
business routine
transport and Communications
leave to the committee , sitting , the time that the Senate
the Committee of Selection
introduction of the fourth report
the Code offence
bill to the Second - First Reading
the Union Inter
the four - ranging - 10 , Egypt conference held in Oulan Batour , in Mongolie - Report of the report of the group Canadian
the Act , the Official Languages
the services in French services to the French out Quebec - Notice of inquiry
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Court Supreme
the appointment of the Honourable Beverley McLachlin the the position of Justice in the
the Defence down
the restructuring of the units the contingency the the Canada Atlantic , " 1 Somalia the Transferred the campaign the the Artillerie Royal Canadian
the Senate
the efforts to the increase the regions of the minority visible
the development of the resources human
the efforts to the increase the regions of the minority visible
the First Human
the disarmament nuclear - Government Policy the the government side , the resolution of the York Agenda Coalition
the business foreign
the new ambassador the Canadian the Organization World of the trade , The of the one contract the consultation with the employer the the former ambassador - Request for Tabling of documents
the Finance
the d?valuation the the dollar - Conformity influence on the Upholder the companies Canadian , the the interests foreign
answers delayed the Canadian and the control
the Environment
the Nova Scotia Nova Scotia - fault of the contaminated the the sites of pollutants sites
the Defence down
the Nova Scotia Nova Scotia - fault of the prospect of the damage occur by the floods in the coincidental the Cumberland
the Senate . the Senate
on business orders
the speech , the Throne
motion of the Canadian the question . response to Continued the the debate
the Adresse the answer to Motion Honourable the end of the the debate on eighteenth on the Chair of Second the the debate
the Code offence
bill to the Second - Second Reading
referred to the committee , Adopted the Canadian motion of amendment
business legal and Constitutional
motion requesting the authority to use of documents and evidence collected in the the examination of the bill to the previous to the study of the bill to the present , Adjourned the the debate
the consequences of the Union monetary European
leave to the committee , the business foreign the CCN the the staff
business foreign
the amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty the the Atlantic North - the Canadian the report budget of the committee on the study
the strategies to the answer to the needs of the aboriginal the federal - activated
inquiry
the crisis in the area crop
the Canadian a question of emergency public , under the the article 60 the the Rules
the Senate
the 1998 3 November 99
the Chair . Chair . In at 1:30 , the Speaker , the the Chair .
prayers .
the crisis crop at
the leave of 3:15 under the the article 60 the the Rules to the review of the matter of the public
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , I rise to speak today , for the Canadian Conference of a debate . emergency the Canadian crisis crop .
i believe that the I must convince His Honour , the my colleagues , the emergency the Canadian the .
i wish to the coming of expression that the committee on the Canadian the Agriculture and the the forestry the amount for the Canadian a year and shocking the the evidence of the Canadian Higher the farmers , primarily those of the west of the Canada .
these from the people entretenus the the problems that they are now .
i believe that our committee has lent a solid careful to their representations , the were serious .
the first ministers of the Manitoba and the Canadian Saskatchewan , are feeling that the disappointed the Canadian response to the people received the the years of the discussions that they have conversations recently with the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Finance .
he is the in the west of the Canada . deep feeling of Equipment and the despair .
i do cite not the numbers today , because the " in the previous . the in this chamber and that the in the Canadian , he yesterday .
however , the tragedy human the the product now in the West is very serious .
i have heard yesterday , the the people who is capable of the services of the telephone .
they have been indicated that he is the previous the eight suicides .
the last , piled is the Canadian a man , father of four children , the the motion suicid? , the summer forsaken by the wife , because of the difficult situation in the people . twenty .
honourable senators , we are all of the chronic did .
this crisis . so serious that it opens in the country ability to represent our regions and the responsibilities our responsibilities to the country . world .
honourable senators , he is the number issues , I wish you respecting .
however , I believe that the aspect of the tragedy human is the most important .
we must get a call the this regard .
the time press .
he is a prepared to a situation . emergency the demands that we seek the the government , now .
the crisis economic at the end not just the farm agricultural .
it has also the the impact on the worst the machinerie , the EH and the Employment in the whole .
each vendeur the machinerie is a small plant .
the , personally to new and tracteurs and the other machines agricultural .
when the farmers . the not the money , these businesses are Tax and the the people lose their job .
the government will be paid to the assurance - unemployment .
he is essential to the not allow this situation perdurer , the , which would and effectively .
i wish to the the impact of the crisis in the municipalities rural .
a financing of Abandoned Grain the announcement , by voting , the deadline the levy of the tax local .
i have heard the the chairman of the board City of the municipality the Wellington , the the North the Weyburn , in Saskatchewan . It the said that is not . not because the the farmers . " no pay their taxes , but , the people . the not the money for the make .
the situation . the the impact on the Canadian Saskatchewan in the many areas .
honourable senators , I wish to the the impact of this situation on the country nation .
it is involving not just the Saskatchewan , the Manitoba and some regions of the Alberta , but the the country .
the most , it is the product . This the the Canada , in the world world , the case of the grants and the rest .
we know , the reasons .
in a section of The , the said that the one up to new days , the chairman Clinton . did a wide crop the rules . the Canadian emergency the the farmers . 8,7 billion . $ .
in response to this , the chairman of the committee , the Agriculture , said :
i am pleased that the chairman that signing the bill to the important , the so I do understand that it is the so inspection .
honourable senators , the motion of the very serious the credit a debate in this chamber .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the Hon. the Speaker :
i wish to remind the the honourable senators , the Rules the Canadian and hear , 5 minutes by Senator and 15 minutes of debate on the total .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I rise in the the Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate .
the the the Canadian decision is multitude the Canadian civility the Governor Hon. the Speaker , I will be very prudent in my comments .
honourable senators , the senator Gustafson we , the government . the intent of order to the .
we , we listened and we are all the fact prepared to allow the Speaker , having to the subject under the the Rules .
i do I do the point particular , to the
i do out , however , the us are all the complexity of the the the senator Gustafson the said , the Canadian and the Canadian the committee on the the Agriculture .
we are happy to allow the the Speaker : ensuring the Whole , pursuant to the Rules , the the the is the one issue of the public urgency .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
you , you , the or not ?
the senator Hays :
i do I do the claim the " to the Speaker what do because the I respect to rule .
i believe that the Speaker is to a decision in the Canadian . the the the course .
the senator Kinsella :
the right - you not the opinion ?
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
there has the or not a crisis ?
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I do I do so , merely that the senator Gustafson the the subject , but I am the daughter the one farmer the Canadian initiatives the the lakes the the Manitoba .
the lack of the crisis crop been the the months .
during the time , the farmers have been accul?s the the Right the the ripe because the people marges the Universit the are resserr?es .
the cost ?chappent the the control of the farmers .
the price are unrelated by the market international and they ?chappent , the their control .
the Competition is impossible to the Canadian and grants paid by the Union European and the United - United .
the so , farmers are available on the income of a or two jobs , the foreign the Canadian firm , they are unemployed youths and anticipate the Income .
they could losing their land , and heritage , and concern to income and the way of life which they are deeply attachment .
honourable senators , the progressive personal not make no , the subject of emergency Finance , but I will list , why the 269 why the crisis . urgency the the point of justification a debate . emergency .
the first , the week , the Canadian and producers agricultural and the first ministers of the Manitoba and the Canadian Saskatchewan , came to Ottawa to ask the assistance of the government , the
they knew that he was examined the the producers receive the other payments to this December for so , bankruptcy before the spring .
as we , we , the government has refused to allowing the new we , money and the Banking will now forced to make the Canadian and saisies .
second , the Program of the in the Canadian origin related to the income crop , the " needs a gap in the program existing the safety of the income crop , is a disaster .
the the Manitoba , the Canadian 55p. per - and producers the Canadian the the summer dealt to the present . the positive no , the
third , the impact of the crisis crop . severe not only by the farm agricultural shaped , but also by almost all the world . community rural .
the people . the cost their bills .
they sex the Canadian machines agricultural .
the ?coliers used their telephones school of the year 81 .
almost all the world . the serrer the belt , rogner the first and accessibility .
fourth , the level of pressure increase so , the farmers and their families and the the communities rural .
he need to read the correspondence arises by the the children , the Prime Minister for the " what the the parents are paying stress?s .
the issues . was clarifi?s and the crisis . was a the light at the meetings that I have conversations here and the the Manitoba with the the delegations the farmers d?sesp?r?s .
he we have been very grateful the the have heard , the " the Senate .
they are tremendous Lotus and demoralized by the the forces , ?chappent completely the their control .
how can the us , the the Senate , looking the situation . eroded more . to a working appropriate to their concerns in the part of a debate . emergency ?
the Honourable Ron Ghitter :
honourable senators , I rise to encourage the Speaker in the Canadian Conference of a debate . emergency the the subject .
in the the citadin , I am a great , the the comfortable the luck the the asphalte that the Canadian land , but I consider the importance of our world crop . the point of the Canadian , a the the summer a representative elected in Alberta during eight years and the the point of the Canadian a senator who has met at numerous occasions the the people derogate the the world crop .
the the years of the years , I struck the blaguant my friends farmers . " pleurnichards the , and the people who is the ever CWB .
this is that the bad time , the the price of the Wheat , the the amount of the grants , or more the years of the dollar when they will the break the the sun .
it August , the senator Gustafson I was invited to a meeting of Ottawa . a group of farmers . the Saskatchewan and the the Alberta .
many of my colleagues , that the .
we have heard the the the the farmers shacks .
this is the not the the people who parlaient higher and very and the fellow the attention of the .
when I have I regard?s in the most , I have seen the fear .
when I have I truthfully , I could be in their voices of the tr?molos trahissant the eyes that they pin the services .
when I have thought the the the people were to say , I am become very concerned , but only to them , but also to the people crop . the Canada .
i have examined the the people were to say , and that is that the honourable Spivak and Gustafson I had said .
then , when I have laughed the graphique the McGrath that the income crop net realized , expressed in $ terms of 1998 , was spent the 1,010 million . $ that he was the 1993 , 1997 , the 400 million . $ the 1998 , the least 48 million . $ the 1998 , I have the the the people parlaient .
we do we ourselves not the one in the Canadian and people from abuses a little more of the " the government .
this are the the people who are the the ship the the gulf .
they survival is the gap the the role .
the the the amuser with the numbers for the long , but the fact is that the situation is absolute in the regions rural the the Canada .
in the West , it is the most of the matter ; and figures are effarants .
this is the one way of life , is attack in the west of the Canada , Your Honour .
from the the Manitoba , you know that the that is that the
the communities rural , the control of the resources agricultural , the cost of the foods and the floor of thousands of Canadians are in principle .
i note , by the , the the senator Hays has had the one new employment .
the income crop . so significantly that he has agreed . Humphrey the Leader Deputy the the Senate .
as the the the said , the divesting of the West -
the Hon. the Speaker :
i regret to interrupt interrupt the Honourable Senator Ghitter , but the period of 15 minutes . They .
however , he can continue to the skilled the authority .
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Hon. the Speaker :
please continue .
the senator Ghitter :
the week , the the Prime Minister Romanow and the Prime Minister Doer were to the head of a delegation , the Ottawa , for the " the government , a balancing the claim billion . $ to the farmers .
the farmers . the West , the reverse that a balancing immediate little , fondaient the great hopes the the meetings .
however , their hopes the summer disappointed .
the delegation is repartie the hands vides , except that the the the report of new series of figures .
i think that the incident . the the emergency the Canadian the , the knowledge that the farmers . the West wished deal of crisis the week , the
it is the not been r?solue , and we , honourable , we now , to the entire emergency to come immediately , the " and producers of the West .
if we look more than the the will be the be too late .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I thank all the honourable the people in the the debate for the the the , the or not in sending .
as it has been underlined , the Speaker is established .
i refer to the " the rule 60 ( 1 ) the the Rules , the adoption of the the need be sought .
i quote :
60 . ( 1 ) , " must be the " a contingency real and Tobin the attention immediate the the Senate ;
b ) . the not evaluating a discussion . shape during the same session under the the present , the the Rules and
the sub the motion and b ) . K . that the the well - based on the proposal .
here is that the the rule the following :
this rule . the GST not to the proposal to the study .
the rule the following the said :
d ) . " raised the subject to a substance a question of privilege .
this rule . the GST not only the .
i refer now , honourable the the rule 60 ( 6 ) the the Rules , the the preamble as follows :
60 ( 6 ) , " in what the it has the " and responsibilities administrative the the government or the challenges of the federal - and departments ;
this rule I the Canadian industries the the well - based on the proposal .
the the rule the following :
60 ( 6 ) b ) why he is a likely that the Senate that a place to the study of the in a matter reasonable .
i regret that , in the Canadian the rule b ) , the proposal . the not based .
the same , I do I heard any , based on the supreme the the point of the .
in borders this rule of the whole of the conditions that I must join , I immediately that the leave should be granted .
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , I wish thank His Honour for his decision , the us put .
however , we do we not expected that the
he is the Canadian and committees , members of the - afternoon .
i wish to the the honourable senators , the front accept that is debatable not be not be the the time when the rules the Rules , the knowledge , the Order of the Order , but rather , 20 at the
this is a day , we granted generally a meeting respect short to the WTO the our committees of vaquer the people work .
we refer the decision and we are the debate this issue , but we watchdog that the debate that the " 20 at the
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the House of the the one case of a great importance to the Canada . the " we .
this is a contingency .
the not cannot the arguments .
we will bouleverser the practice evolve the our work for dealing a question , the Canadian the opinion of the side - the Canadian the House , is a contingency national , a great crisis , a decisive that we do entertain back to the late .
is why we do would not supportive to the hormone the the debate .
we want to debate on the end of the Order of the Order , before the other issue .
honourable senators , I acknowledge that the question of -
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , I point of order .
the Opposition Deputy of the Opposition votes a speech .
i have asked the leave , with legislators the the support .
the my opinion , a simple , but the need to this leave is disposed .
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the motion exactly .
you not have clearly not read the decision made last , His Honour the Speaker .
the senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , the things . the not also stated that this .
a part of the intervention of the Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate . the committee .
i wish to the the point .
if the motion comfortable necessary to the committee on the Canadian and Communications and the the communication , in the time that the Senate , we , the the side - the , would the agreement for the , permit .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the leave of change the Rules is disposed .
the Rules specific . clear that the debate . emergency will be the the nurses the the Order of the Order of the " the most later , the 20 at the night .
honourable senators , I draw your attention of the rule 60 ( 4 ) the the Rules .
in order to this provision , he is clear that the the Speaker , the the place . the " the call the the " D?clarations the honourable the , it is up to the honourable the people , the the opinion - to
in the other words , the debate . emergency the eyes the the " D?clarations the honourable . "
the rule that the place . the " the call - to
in order to this provision , he not there will not the statements of senators , today .
business routine
transport and Communications
leave to the committee , sitting , the time that the Senate
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 58 ( 1 ) , " the the Rules , "
that the Committee on the Canadian and Communications and the the communication the power to sit in relation thereto 30 , today , the 3 November 99 , the the Canadian sitting of the Senate may be in the , and that the application of the rule 95 ( 4 ) the the Rules the sitting , this regard .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Committee of Selection
introduction of the fourth report
the Honourable L?once Jeffrey :
honourable senators , I have the honour to present the fourth report of the Committee of Selection to the Canadian along the the honourable the will the Canadian and various committee particular , the present session .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is the the Canadian agreed , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Jeffrey , the study of the report is placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting )
the Code offence
bill to the Second - First Reading
the Honourable Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I have the honour to present the bill to the S - 9 , the motion to amend the Code offence ( abuse of the motion .
( the bill to the motion read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we , bill to the one second time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Cools , the second reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the Chair of Wednesday next , the 10 November 99 . )
the Union Inter
the four - ranging - 10 , Egypt conference held in Oulan Batour , in Mongolie - Report of the report of the group Canadian
the Honourable Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , I have the privilege of correspondence the report of the delegation Inter the Canadian , the one meeting of the group Asia - Pacific the the Union Inter the the in the " Oulan Batour , in Mongolie , the the 26 , the 31 July 1999 .
the Act , the Official Languages
the services in French services to the French out Quebec - Notice of inquiry
the Honourable Jean - Maurice Simard :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the traditional 16 November 99 , I give the attention of the Senate on the situation which climate now opposite , the - raising the development and the francophone the the communities French and acadiennes , the the seriousness crushing , the the d?sengagement the the governments to the Canada , the years of the ten years in the Canadian the loss of accessibility to the services in French .
i congratulate the the opportunity to table my report entitled : " Yes the claim to the trouble , a look the heart . the northern the .
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Court Supreme
the appointment of the Honourable Beverley McLachlin the the position of Justice in the
the Honourable Marcel Prud ' s
honourable senators , as it is there has not have the period Statements the the statements of senators , today , I will have a question .
this is a question . better that I will have the the Leader Deputy of the government .
there will be a ceremony special to celebrate the event particular , from the have the ?
i wish to the one event historic in our country and the the world world - the appointment of her the Krever Beverley McLachlin the the position of Justice in the Canadian the Court Supreme the the Canada .
the Honourable Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate . appropriate , he not the one does the Canadian and the point of none , broadcaster ?
the Senate is the wharfinger the Canadian tradition and the motion . " the indicated that he noted the event .
i do I do enter a debate on the subject , but the other senators , the - be some words , that the this event historic majeur .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I just . That the reverse the new and I , I delighted .
the question of the senator could be doubly the various ways .
he asked that the honourable so that the the comments on this event fiftieth as the day , even now , then , benefits , they are separate the the years of the period Statements the the statements of senators ,
i think that the " the name of my colleagues , he would it appropriate to speak now , announced the this appointment .
following the previous established by my counterpart , the Opposition Deputy of the Opposition , I take the the the I am stand to express the corridors happy and the pride that I worked , something that the Honourable Beverley McLachlin remplacera the Krever , Chief Lamer the Canadian Court Supreme the the Canada .
her the Krever McLachlin the motion esteemed as lawyer and as judge .
we all the we had the privilege of Jews the right we very proud of the .
my colleagues and I welcome to the other senators taking some time to speak to none fiftieth .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the request the leave of the date of the comments on the subject raised by the Honourable Senator Prud ' .
the leave is the it leave ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
the .
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
the - that we say what will the impact on the period of the issues ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
the senator Forrestall :
i do agree that surely the consent .
i was just counts the Province of cancer that the proposal would the Canadian length meeting of the period of the issues .
the Defence down
the restructuring of the units the contingency the the Canada Atlantic , " 1 Somalia the Transferred the campaign the the Artillerie Royal Canadian
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I have a question to question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
it goes to a discussion that I have conversation with the previous to the subject of the restructuring of the units the contingency the the Canada .
some units are included as the dividing , and the other as the only viable .
the press impediment the things , he not there has not the question in my mind that I have been facing detrimentally the mistake .
i have chosen to add faith to this because the three or four people different were in the Canadian answer to the request of information .
it to the 1 regiment the campaign the the Artillerie Royal Canadian , the the neighbourhood General , in the Halifax .
this is a unit that the Minister does , the and the the motion . the rather proud to the the Scotians - Scotians .
the the acknowledged the this unity a level of manning in line of 93,1p. per and a rate of efficiency of 88,5p. per .
the fact , the least 15 units the contingency the the Canada , are qualifi?es the only viable .
however , no - and they not the one issue such .
it has brought the one brouille of the administration of the contingency the the Canada and the government of the to the the reasons as those of the , I guess .
i believe that this unity deserves the the apologize .
i think that the human the seeds to do . apologize is quite a that the Minister responsible for the Nova Scotia Nova .
i do not . the the negotiations extensive the this regard , but the individual apologize for the mistake , the important how it has been commise .
the Minister can the the authority , reassessment of the backlog leave to this unity historic the Canadian Nova Scotia Nova the the years of the process of reassessment ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the question , the the government has always seconded the role is that role of 41 in the the country .
i know that , in my region , we will move a bothersome to both biographies facilities the Sydney , in Nova Scotia Nova , the purposes the Canadian reserve .
i believe that the the facilities beneficial far the functioning of the contingency in the region .
the unity the reason the Honourable Senator , which , the 1 regiment the campaign the the Artillerie Royal Canadian , is a unit remarkable the all the Scotians - Scotians can be proud .
i would ask the make the Canadian a little of patience , the time that I am seek the Canadian the Minister of the subject .
i hope that provide the the senator Forrestall a response specific the the question .
the senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , far the I , " the subject to the name of the regiment .
the one another side , the Vice - Colonel Doyle has left to the in the comments that he has made it is the few months , the " the opinion , the least , so that the CFT to satisfy the situation would the the apologize .
this unity is viable and should be r?tablie .
this is the - be the one of the units the most financially the the Canada .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I thank the senator for this information .
i rise very the the serious the United the service of the regiment which he has referred .
i attempt to have the most forth further on this issue and the specific the the senator , on satisfaction .
the Senate
the efforts to the increase the regions of the minority visible
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the week , the I have attended the one conference , the place to Ottawa .
i have found in the this event that the government . the Canada was failed miserably to the the motion of opening the basis public , the minority visible .
the the last report on the equity in the Employment , only 9 200 the the U.S.A. $ officials federal , " they , the members of minorities visible .
it is about cent per , the least , the half of the GDP per the the minority visible minorities , the public . the people of the
the the Senate , the the past statistics that I have been to the 1,2p. per - and employee are members of minorities visible .
the House of second thought coming serious the the back and not the not known draw a standard being the Canadian representation of the minority visible the the public . the the business and the the organizations of the government . the Canada .
the Leader of the government to the Senate . " he what plans strategic are in the Canadian and , the the , in the , for improving the regions of the minority visible the the Senate . the Canada ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the question . is a the concern . the government , and not only the Senate .
in the , the the efforts are flags been a number of the to do the so that the percentage of positions busy by the the members of the minority visible the the government reflects the percentage the the minority population to the public . the people switch .
the objectives . the not yet been achieved .
however , he is the Canadian and warning encouraged .
the the statistics recent that I do I do the labour indicate that the members of the minority visible seem to the the promotions in the the ensuing correspondent the their population to the public . the basis public .
this is the , but the situation . is not entirely satisfaction .
the numbers seem when the indication a greater .
obviously , we seek , the objective our objective , the motion of equal to the public . the basis public and the the Senate , reflects the percentage the future of minorities visible in the people in general .
the development of the resources human
the efforts to the increase the regions of the minority visible
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate might - the suggestion . concerns the the cabinet and awareness of colleagues , the important issue of the regions inad?quate the the minority visible the the Foreign senior the Canadian public service ?
when the Minister presents the statistics that he has traffic , he could be the be completed a list and bring to the Senate . the Canadian the - provincial and the subamendment , ministers assistants the are members of minorities visible in the basis public Canadian , and provide the the statistics for the Senate , the same ?
the commitment to the make it ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I will certainly to the the Senate and to the all those that this concern the report that I have mentioned .
i do the I do the Canadian labour in the time .
however , I have thought that is the the interest the senator for the the date , only the percentage of minorities visible , but also how these minorities visible seem preliminary in the deployment .
i am confident the specific these information to the senator .
the the the motion of the Senate , the question the interest in just as the committee Standing the Canadian Economy Economy , the the Economy , the the board .
the senator Oliver :
honourable senators , I do I have been the the Senate . the committee .
i hope that , in the fiscal the the part , the Leader of the government to the Senate worthwhile to the Canadian government and that he we seek the issues .
the Minister discusses that the situation . improving .
i would ask the devastating the list of the subamendment , ministers and the - provincial assistants , the Canadian and minority visible to the right reason that I know Devco that they are so that many of the Minister of the g?n? .
the improvements concerning the fact which have been treated the the Foreign lower the Canadian public service , the the motion bashful .
the First Human
the disarmament nuclear - Government Policy the the government side , the resolution of the York Agenda Coalition
the Honourable Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate may , he indicate whether the Canada votera indeed , the Canadian the resolution of the York Agenda Coalition , now , the study the the United Human , the instructions of both the most delay the negotiations the road to the implementation of the Canadian a program of disarmament nuclear ?
i have already asked the question last , the Minister .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I thank our the Honourable Senator the have renewed his question of today .
he not me , not yet been given the in the with the Minister of the Foreign Affairs and the the International Covenant .
the Canada has come and Teleglobe seconded the program of disarmament nuclear , the the the cheques the urgently the Order General or arriving as the treatment of the dumping dangerous left , the disarmament nuclear .
the the the motion of the question raised , I do I do answer to the place . the Minister responsible and I am sure the power rapporter his answer . quickly to the Honourable Senator .
the senator Roche :
i thank the Minister of this question .
i ask the the Leader of the government to the Senate . the suggestion of the emergency because the the vote , the United Human the Permanent the the beginning of the week next .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I acknowledge the federal - the Honourable Senator , the federal and the role Lorne that he has played in the issues of disarmament .
i am delighted to receive these documents and I , clarity of the " the Minister to the end of the week .
the business foreign
the new ambassador the Canadian the Organization World of the trade , The of the one contract the consultation with the employer the the former ambassador - Request for Tabling of documents
the Honourable James F . Kelleher :
Mr. . Marchi the replaced a Nobel very did , the Canadian 20 years of experience in the Canadian trade internationally , Mr. John Weekes .
you , rappellerez the - be the , the week , the Minister Weekes the summer elected to the position prestigious the chairman of the Council General of the WTO , the prairies the Canadian 130 the .
the one , the the U.S. Financial the date of the 12 October 1998 , Mr. Weekes the Donkin his first interview been the the the summer ?vinc? the the position of ambassador of the Canada , the the WTO and the said that he was the chairman responsible for the practical trade numerous to APCO , the motion of cabinet American the experts , as the
the article indicates , Mr. Weekes continue to be a counsel Main the Canadian the government ' .
the senator Kinsella :
this is a good question .
yes , but ?
the senator Kelleher :
a simple answer will the case .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
thank , honourable senator .
i wish to respond as author and also face the possible , but a response by taking or by the not alone the - be not .
i do know that the former Incumbent the the position .
he must clearly be a man . distinguished to have been the same as quickly a position as a in the area private .
i know the dean present , the affiche a checkup . distinguished not only on the scene public , the the government , but also in the area of the trade .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
the matter of the MMT was the trouble , not . - that the ?
the senator Boudreau :
the background be grown be well as the
the experience that he has squandered in the area of the trade and the the government are the the exact the kind of acclaimed the appropriate to the kind of the .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
he has voted against the free - free , you , except - you ?
the senator Boudreau :
i am sure that no - and we do wish to be ?cart?s the the applicants simply because the people have made to the Canadian life public , as we , we now .
i commend the government . the appointment of the dean present .
the the the motion of the market agreements with the the lobby , I am sure that the government . the Canada has regularly use the the services of hundreds to various business .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
the the people . the cong?die ?
the senator Boudreau :
the human , because the - it to the number of the lobby , I do back the course .
if it is inadequate to the CHST , I am sure that the government gets the good services in generous the Canadian Armed construct .
the senator Kelleher :
honourable senators , I can tell the the Leader of the government to the Senate Mr. John Weekes is very appropriate .
the Canadian reseller the the months , the Canada and 130 other countries . Privileges , journals to get the next round of negotiations the the WTO .
as these negotiations be a the great impact on the Canada , he is important that the Canadian firms fully trust in the management of these negotiations to Geneva .
the the name of the transparency and the darkness the uncertainty the the subject of the market . APCO before the meeting of the WTO the Miami , the Leader of the government presents the the contract and the documents related , there was the the delivery the call the bidding and the licensing of the market ?
the senator Boudreau :
he is responsible for the matter and I do pretend not to defeat this responsibility .
i will the suggestion the request of the senator , the means to the most forth further on the contract .
the Finance
the d?valuation the the dollar - Conformity influence on the Upholder the companies Canadian , the the interests foreign
the Honourable Gerry St. :
he is the in a terrific the " the sale of MacMillan Bloedel , along Canadian youths the long date , the Weyerhaeuser , a conglom?rat American the the advantage of the the one of the Canadian of the corporate be a way devastating the Canadian the Canadian the government . " our system tax and budgetary , leaving the dollar Canadian be the d?valu? that he the motion to the time at the
this morning , I have the the trajet been Toronto with a young man who has always been a Liberal , but who is the " the heading the look all these businesses be achet?es by the the Americans and the other , virtually the half price .
the Minister has the Canadian and observations the main respect to the fact that these great companies Canadian . the loss by the the business foreign ?
i do say that the the need return to the terrible Agency the examination of the investment foreign the Act up by the government Liberal Mr. Trudeau , but I think that he is the one problem , the lumber the great companies as MacMillan Bloedel .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the comments of the Honourable Senator I interested deep .
the entire clearly , the value of our eastern creates a dynamic economic , the tools various consequences or various events , the the circumstances .
i am surprised the reverse that , in general , the representatives of the area of the resources natural the face the Canadian et the the dollar Canadian .
i would thought that , in the Canadian and the , it . offrirait a boon extraordinary when , the time , sell their products across the the world .
i do I do expert the the industry . the lumber the sciage , but I know that , in the many branches the the area of the resources natural , the weakness of the dollar Canadian . offered the great benefits to our farm , the the the same contributed to create the the jobs and the liberalization the dark economic .
the weakness of the dollar Canadian . " had the Canadian the least , some ways , the the impact positive the the area of the resources natural .
this is it is necessary , by the , the motion that the weakness of the dollar makes the acquisition of companies Canadian . appealing to those who hold the the $ American and the requirement of such tip the interesting the words .
he not be most not forget that our eastern is flottante and that it is it is the Hon. own level .
this will the same . the case , the least , we do we are the constant the full the political the Canadian Bank of the Canada .
in the the concerns of iceberg by the the interests foreign , he is the - be the other alternatives that the Agency the examination of the investment foreign .
the Honourable Senator , the person - be the matters the us put .
the St. Germain :
honourable senators , the Leader of the Canadian et the the dollar Canadian and the the area associations .
this is really a false economies , the in some cases , it is the facts , become a practising .
it has led to the 1920 quota smears the the lumber the implementation , the people set a real untold .
it has broad the development of the industry in a province , because the quota , the not be open a scierie .
it affects a series of problems , the subject .
this is really prosecutors .
honourable senators , I believe that , in the part of solutions to short term , the government has maintained the rate of the " a level too there and the motion . the the leading to the d?valuation the the dollar flottant .
in the the particular , our volunteers by the " the rest of the world . was reduced .
the the Pearson Heathrow , he , cost 15 books for a little , beautiful , the the potential , except mistake , 45 $ Canadian about .
it mine completely our ability to stay competitive respond on the market global .
the senator Taylor :
this Mr. Mulroney who has started . that the
the St. Germain :
listen , you have had your endeavours .
you instructions you mothballing the Canadian GST and the all these other measures and you not in your not the , Mr. .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I , saying supplied , I do I do the agreement with my honourable friend the one some of the point .
the St. Germain :
i hope that is the the case .
the senator Boudreau :
some of these differences touch the Canadian Greeks .
the question of the I do I do the vote of this .
when the motion of a rate of change fixed and the peace artificial the the dollar Canadian , a level , high by the " the dollar American , he is being drawn the the conditions the will commence the global the Canadian value of our dollar .
i wish to the Honourable Senator far the I am looks to a rate of change flottant .
i find that is the one good to the correct the situation to the two major savings , the United - United and the Canada , the ability to the examination of a " the other .
i have the vote of a rate of change flottant and , I - I add , I do so that the " determine the pr?ner a continuing the the rate of the .
i do I do that the agreement with the Honourable Senator , the motion of the the the motion . the the country . abolish the rate of the .
i do I , just not the ultraright .
the Canadian and people of the industry . the resources natural with which I am I talked the Somalis party , a dollar Canadian small .
however , with a rate of change flottant , the dollar Canadian finit by way of the the motion of fun .
the least , we do we are the feasibility a number of the government Draconian , a rate of change tied or a continuing the the rate of the by the , the dollar Canadian continue to find the home level .
i do I do take the " Sinews the vote of unemployment of the notablement the high .
i do know that if the honourable the in the , are proceeding , but I do believe that the country party , the favourable .
answers delayed the Canadian and the control
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I have the answer regarding the one issue . the Honourable Senator Lowell Murray has raised the 13 October 1998 , the Senate to the subject of the responsibility of the contaminated the the sites of pollutants toxiqueS , in Nova Scotia Nova , the one answer to a question that the Honourable Senator Donald Oliver , raised in the Senate . In October 1998 , the subject of the funding of the prospect of the damage occur by the floods in the coincidental the Cumberland .
the Environment
the Nova Scotia Nova Scotia - fault of the contaminated the the sites of pollutants sites
( response to the question raised by the Honourable Lowell Murray : 13 October 1998 )
the privatization next , the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape ( SDCB ) , raised the the concerns the Canadian rehabilitative the the Surveyor h?rit?es or learning , the Corporation has his native the 1967 .
as indicated in the Debates of the Senate . the 13 October the , the responsibility and the Senate refuse to the latest the the sites miniers current and lepers the Canadian SDCB describes the this last .
the same , in the report annual ( a the period , the end of 31 March 1998 ) , the SDCB the fact , better estimate of the cost provided the the issues environmental ( d?molition the vessels , urged , the Canadian terrassement , affecting the the Mackenzie and other business of offenders ) .
the following the best estimate of the leadership of the cost to the follow the the requirements of the legislation and regulations relevant , and a test provided by the returns of engineers - serving Senes , the cost provided the affirmative the the damage occur the the Environment the lending to Section million . $ .
environment Canada lives of the advice technical and scientific the Canadian SDCB the the issues revitalizing and future related to the activities of Halifax the this last , the objective the Canadian ensure the the the the activities confident the the requirements of the legislation and regulations on the protection of the Environment .
the Defence down
the Nova Scotia Nova Scotia - fault of the prospect of the damage occur by the floods in the coincidental the Cumberland
( response to the question raised by the Donald H . Oliver : 13 October 1998 )
the government . the Nova Scotia Nova is the gap the assessment the damage to the infrastructure public occur by the ice .
the authorities provincial and conscientes the Canadian Availability of the support fiscal federal , in order to the Charlottetown the assistance financial the case of disaster ( Charlottetown AFC ) , and they are the criteria the eligibility .
the Senate . the Senate
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I believe that we have the Canadian Criminals to the the are the honourable are , in order to the Rules , we can question of the issues for the period of the issues .
i have the impression that the issues can be directed to the chairs of the various committee and the the Leader of the government to the Senate .
i believe that the Canadian first question , the summer raised today , the coast to the Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate .
if I had failed to the was prohibited the the Rules , the senator Carstairs , I - the procedure in many more of trade that we do the we showed the the years of the last session .
he would be the " we throw if the Leader Deputy of the government is the one of the honourable the the Canadian and the ability to entertain for the period of the issues .
the Hon. the Speaker :
in the absence of the Leader of the government to the Senate , the Leader Deputy the the usual the answer to the issues in the extent the the the person .
however , when the Leader of the government is this , the issues must be a balancing .
on business orders
the speech , the Throne
motion of the Canadian the question . response to Continued the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Jeffrey , seconded by the Honourable Senator Furey , seconded the the adoption of a Adresse the Governor General of Gouverneure general , on the the speech that contemporaries the speech in the the opening of the second session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament . - (
the Honourable Marie - P .
he is the well long that the us that the one speech , ?clatant the pan respect to the possibility of capitaliser the the tremendous potential of our country full of richesses .
with the end of the millennium . apparus the the urbane , the the adherents the cultes and the the proph?tes the pain with their chapelet the Kerner and the exhortations d?primantes the Canadian reseller the the century .
they not make no , ordinary the " the effervescence and the Canadian practice that consolidation those and those who support the government .
we are reports by the achievements of the Canada , the years of the century century and we dealing with confidence and exaltation the challenges the risk of next century and the new millennium .
honourable senators , the speech , the Throne the the the tone the Canadian the the us will begin the new era .
we do dealing not the future of influence materials and we do we not exhibiting in the past .
we recognize that some mistakes the summer along , but they have been totally ?clips?es by our accomplishments .
we have learned of the lessons of our mistakes and we expectations of new mountains .
but we can influence the evolution by the effort , by the conviction , by the determination , by our courage , by our work , by our Innovation , by our creativity , by our motivator and especially in providing the parameters to spending in partnership with the other provincial , in partnership with the area private and especially in giving the example .
honourable senators , we can achieve the the mountains inimaginables in the area of the Council and the the Science , the Canadian research and the the development , the the progress social , the Canadian promotion of the growth personal and especially the Canadian promotion of the peace and the right will the the country .
the Canada , my friends , is the best place where live .
the " a good planning the Canadian the Canadian the government of the " and democracies the all the Canadian , we have succeeded to overcome the scourge of the debt .
he not to a not the one vision civil and ?ph?m?re ; it is supporting the Canadian and values concrete and practices .
honourable senators , the speech , the Throne and the remarks , the summer made by the following the the Prime Minister of the Canadian subsidiaries a part of action realistic .
the process is already in the and we comptons , building this vision uncle by uncle , a morceau the Canadian , the
honourable senators , I , the father was menuisier in the North the the Ontario , the professor .
we have learned as child and small - child that the virtues , he is that our home the b?tie the one foundation strong , Motor , Yolande .
this is that the country government . the patriation been six years and the motion . the country government will continue to do , because we have the right to address the the Throne .
honourable senators , the that built on the back to the health tax , the Elimination of the deficit paralysant and a meaningful direct the Canadian debt Stacking .
our economy . in full growth .
the rate unemployment is low , the inflation , the the export transfers , the tax start to drive and the salaries transfers .
this is a cornerstone very important , the capstone cornerstone of the commitment to the government of the " the institution . a Canada , the the coexister the desirability and the " , the Canadian trust in itself and the dignity human not be not sacrifi?es the the altar the Canadian exports and the the ambition .
the strategy to the matter that this vision begin to just as with our children .
i will list of the the the government has been implemented in the " the Program of nutrition pr?natale ; the Program of the pr?scolaire the the aboriginal ; the Subvention Canadian to the savings , education and the the deductions paramount to pay the disclaimer the children and the Prestation national to children , the intent of the families , low and the way income ; and the only the tax . the floor to the support of a child .
the announcement , being of the cong?s the sanctity and parentaux the testimony , the the agreements federal - provincial and a support increased to the development of the children , there age , the the Senior Citizens the resolutions , the money . the hands of the families , the the conditions of the the numbers the Canadian and needs of the families , the reform of the right to the family , a tale important in the Prestation national to children and the best opportunities of learning , the the expansion of the program Rescol .
honourable senators , I am pleased to see that the enthusiasm and the skills technological the the young Canadians will used to the the purpose useful the their will the the use of their talents and the purchase a experience , the level national and international .
i am bornerai the appointment four initiatives to this regard : first , trade Canada , the remainder double the one million . young Canadians , had the study in a place in the the country ; second , the hiring of resource the thousands of young volunteers Canadian in the the bills community and the the bills environmental national , and also to the help the other people to improve their test of reading and the gifted ; third , the possibility of the young Canadians , to the Universit their energy and their talents the the foreign , in the part of programs . Pages international , including the progressive the the country . R the the plug on the Internet ; and unknowingly , the hiring of young Canadians to help the communities rural and urban the end of up to the sites Internet to the public .
in the purpose of support the area of the education , the government has announced and the previous the in the Canadian Foundation Canadian of the scholarships the the millennium , the the per $ first $ 6 lenders the January ; the Subvention Canadian to the savings , education , the deduction of the interests doctoral the the loans students , and the use of the RRSP the the purpose of training .
the entire clearly , the realizing the country vision is the policy .
it involves the the commitments to our environment , the promotion of the trade trade , the investment , the research and the development , the entrepreneuriat and the partnership .
this is the leadership , meets the enthusiasm and the pan , the us head the act , the us . It , the us stimulates and the us encourage the us ... the Canadian and ideas and the the People new .
honourable senators , I have heard the Canadian uncle cornerstone of the vision , our children and our young .
i have heard the our responsibilities financial , the the requirement of protecting the Environment , and that the Canadian need to preserve the program social .
the that is attack , we do g?n?rons not a climate looks to the environment , the business and the argument the business , small and great , can thus .
the investment , the RCCs , the the knowledge necessary in a global approach the the knowledge , we creating the losing the Government envied the us happen in the world .
we have a " everything : a community of communities cultural significance , prosperous , compatissantes and attentionn?es the the spread of a sea to the other .
this is the reason for the I am 500,000 that the speech , the Throne , the the Prime Minister has the late reprinted and ?toff? , the well brought the the trade and the the investment .
i have made happy to hear , the to keep and attention of his and the most highly the our fellow , we must be the Canadian a wit the imagination novateur .
the collaboration of the governments , the universities , the institutions of research and the area private is essential if we want remain the the prior to warnings the Canadian competition World .
he is therefore appropriate that the government . the Canadian dollar the support the Canadian research by the University of our diplomats organizations granting the the Council of research medical , the Council of Research the Science human and the Council of Research the Science natural and the art .
the proposal of creating in the the Canada 2 per new chaires the awards , Research is a bill before the gardiste , the as the same the bill to create the Institute Canadian of research , health .
in the answer to the Prime Minister of the speech , the Throne , he is the one smooth the simplest , the the efforts of the government to promote the research .
he worth the only to be issued :
honourable senators , in extending a strategy , int?gre the economy , the political social and the Environment , the government does the the , as well define the members of direction and his programs , they not have the effective . the area private .
this is the area private the motion of extreme the the economy .
the government can provide the tools , but it . the extreme the the business of the function the owner and the fatalities the foreign and services , the be sold here and the the foreign .
we have all heard about the the matrimonial drain of the brain .
in extending the vision of the future , the government has met the conditions winners to keep and attention of his researchers , the best commensurate , the best producers and the best commercialistes the the world .
as they come to all the regions of the Brandenburg , the Canadian from the best we help to do competition to the country abroad ?
as I have defended a form of Committee to the report his findings to the Senate . June , I am outset that the Canada is the extent of support the Competition in the areas . developments the the ordinatique .
this objective , the the Prime Minister has invited the area private the objective , a one bacterial the 200 billion . $ to the business .
we have a vision of the Canada .
this vision is the Canadian a society modern , the the motion b?tie through the the share of experience and the values , the one from the motion outcome of a determination to intolerance , the fruits , the basic the awards , the one from the fact , lakes the the other .
honourable senators , is that the motion of Canada , our country , the Canadian today , and the near .
the Honourable Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators , the speech , the Throne 1977 the program of the government to the new millennium and we did a plan and a list of priority the statistics that the children be the the prior to perform in the Economy , in the
we see , and other , a whole of programs reasonable to the children , a continuing the the Estimates and the the benefits accorded to the families poor and the people children , a break the sanctity paid , the the housing for the fault - free and a program of action national to the children .
is the the reasons valid and sens?es to the government . to the the Estimates for the the kinds a surplus .
in the , the are the the objectives laudable .
however , what is the date target ?
what programs . consulted to the end to the poverty , the children and when we , we in the one strategy national ?
the the the Canadian , including the need to increase the Estimates , the CHST the the program social dividend appreciate the speech , the Throne , they have however , disappointed that the government has ignored the introduction a plan of action to help the most tall .
that comptons - we do to ease the difficulties of the Canadian , the summer private the people rights ?
the fight against the poverty , the Canada what the Canadian perseverance , the determination , the commitment , the " and the actions concrete .
h?las , the 12 October the , the government . we , as the one list of priority .
he is that the Canadian and the health of tomorrow so that , in considering the present Parliament , the the the native of men and the women profoundly the building a Canada . , and a better quality of life to their children and their small - child .
in my good of Joint the the group of the Canadian the Liberal Party , progressive the Canadian poverty , I am I entretenue with great the individuals and the starting the the poor the one end to the other . the country .
they testimony d?nonce the burden huge the Canadian poverty , as well for the individuals that the Canadian society .
many of the people indicated that the program of fighting against the poverty . " no , improve the situation . the railways - old the day , the but they pursue , the prospects socio?conomiques future of the Canada .
this are there are brought inseparable , honourable senators ,
a good policy economic performance inevitably a good policy social .
the one . " no , the other .
he not . not wherever the council the the honourable that the poverty , the Canada has reached the the ensuing surviving .
the us about the not , 50 of the $ the small Canadians who live under the floor of the poverty ?
the winter the close to our doors , the families are the most of the many of duty to atteler the Canadian painful task of IPU a room .
the speech , the Throne not the work that a half - line to the fault - free .
the U , the 26 October , the daily Ottawa Citizen the article a section inspired the Catherine Luxton , a fillette varying years , the way conscience of the new magnitude of the problem of the itin?rance .
it has decided , with the assistance of the father , the make a thing for help the n?cessiteux .
the Luxton the are set a goal .
he will generate the the fund to buy 50 per room chauds the materials the the fault - free of the region . Ottawa .
as it is comforting the look a young daughter recognize a need pressing in our society and decide the make a thing immediately to address the Canadian the .
why the government makes - the so long before the in the so ?
the the thousands of Canadians live in the agency , the the bridge , in the streets .
this are the citizens overlooked the country from the
the problem of the fault - free is a problem real and serious which too , Canadians are facing today , and the motion of the the I neglected that the government is liked in the speech , the Throne .
everything Teresa we , the in spite when it has said :
we reach awaited , you and I , in the Canadian . the us do to the poor .
now that the budget is exc?dentaire , I hope that the government in Cape to the deal serious the the problem pressing and none of the poverty , the Canada before the pictures to the the time , the judgment the .
the vision aired in the speech , the Throne the purpose of direction that the government undertake to the the year , from the
i commend the government . the in the pr?voyance the goodies that a tale in the first years of our children . a tale in the future of our country .
however , for rompre the undergraduate the Canadian poverty , he is to the all the children , the Canada . opportunity equal the result , and potential .
he is sad the plight that they not in the not the possibility of today .
if we could address with great the the conditions Social the perp?tuent the poverty rock , honourable senators , we could eat a new generation of children , the the children , the needs essential are combl?s to the people so become the the members of the corporation Canadian , the health , self and behave .
the Prime Minister has said :
we must move , so that possible . the words , the actions .
these words , wish to say , the government . the fact that the 1989 , a resolution to the clean the poverty , the children , the year 2000 . was passed by all the parties to the other place .
honourable senators , 10 years . past and the motion yet bashful the plight that the government has made . , for off the small Canadians , the one of five , the stomach rhetoric .
the extent that the poverty , r?pand the the Canada , this promise the the air of the government does the Canadian hope .
the government has promised to new investment in the Prestation national to children , but because he is the one surplus today , the basis expected - the " tomorrow , to the the government ?
when he has met the poor across the the Canada , the group of the Act , poverty , the caucus national the the Liberal Party , progressive the many and clearly , that the the time . time to the government , the r?indexer the Prestation national to children , the rate of inflation .
the the years of the last session , the House Progressive - Conservative the Shefford , the the Quebec , the report of Motion to the same kind of the other place .
the government Liberal . revealed that he entendait spend a billion . $ to expand the medical the sanctity and the attention of six months , a year .
i am delighted to this initiative and the Canadian pr?voyance that the the government in recognizing that he is important that the parents pressing the the time with their children during the first years of training .
however , when the , telling the two , the " the request the " the fair advantage of this grant .
the government . the changes disasters the the market . the work , he is the many of submarine contractual and self .
however , these people . the not part of the system of the - job .
the most , this bill . the way to help those who are excluded the the market . the work up .
it is enhanced not to the needs of the women in lower income , not able to benefit of a break the sanctity if they joint not earner not the money .
that the motion ? the Canadian the Opposition the one family monoparentale the not be able to the the - the or she - the ?
i believe that the the the not . not the question of the medical the sanctity the concern to different Canadian , but , the the challenge to find the average of the Canadian the railways the Canadian table .
the United Human the said that the Canada was the best country . the world to live .
yet , 5.2 million . Canadians live under the floor of the poverty .
the 12 October the , the Canadian had need to the their revealing a plan extending the the solutions concrete to the clean the poverty , the number of the fault - free and the need to have the the Banking , food .
unfortunately , they have heard the waves promises the armed jointly in a matter approximatif .
the the direction of the 21 century , I implore the government . the one - courageuse and audacieuse , the make a continuing concert? and the the CCN to abolish the level of life to the make the Canadian vision aired in the speech , the Throne a reality for the tall .
i the implore the deficit the gap between the rich and the poor , the majorer the benefit tax to rename , the limits the floor of assujettissement the the tax , the r?indexer the tax on the income of the particular , protect the gains the the inflation and the latest the program of the - job for the all those who , the need receive the the benefits , the the frustration the ins?curit? financial the the Canadian , the actions with the new markets , the work .
the government has to interrupt the government . the Canadian life d?cent the all its citizens .
Tagore , a poet indien , the actions :
i have waited and I have r?v? that the life was henceforth , " I am electrifying and I have seen that the life was forced , " I thought and I have found that the duty was henceforth , " wish to the government . " the Archdiocese !
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , the the subject of the decision to recent the Canadian Court Supreme the the Canada , the 17 September 1998 , five judges of the Court Supreme the the Canada , in bringing the Canadian Court of Appeal of Nova Scotia Nova , the pace that the Constitution of Rights derogate the treaty the people were sign?sle 10 March 1760 , Donald Marshall not the not the Canadian . follow the Canadian regulatory the the fishery .
i wish attention your attention of the the accounting and a light unto the not have not been made in suggesting by the Court Supreme and the functioning that the treaty the 1760 not . not recognize .
in determining , the courts should get on the decision .
let - I , let a quote m?morable the the judgment .
he not cannot to the Canadian the honour and the Canadian dignity of the Crown in his reports with the First Nations .
pareils feelings Aspin a h?ro?sme chevaleresque , the the pictures of brave officers and the generous officials .
the judges be a - be to the one memorial , everywhere the the Governor author , ratified the the document the 1760 , the village the the pelouses the Canadian Court Supreme to the people . politicking have the negative the their decision .
however , five years , only to the sign the document now bedrock , the Governor Acting author signed , the clearing August 1755 , a place document delighted to the instructions to the Colonel John Winslow .
the mistakes and arrangement the people , you someday have the " and means the most happening and , the the circumstances , you to the Canadian ruse or the Canadian force .
i wish to the honourable teniez no the Canadian and supplications and the the Kitchener that you adresseront the people , what the members of the wish stay .
a be ignoble , gorg? the Hon. authority military , the , smuggled and the the home this and the Canadian leave of the senior , the the the Order of cover , the evidence and the d?porter 15 per men , women and children , the Canadian half the 1800 during the d?portation .
this is the same rights , the signing the treaty the 1760 .
r?fl?chissons a little to the magnitude of the fault .
the Order transgressait openly the article 29 , the Great Charter of England .
he enfreignait the P?tition the rights of 1628 .
absolutely nothing . the Canadian that the the effect acadiennes remettaient the question of the British .
in assuming that some Acadians have made to the mischief political , he not there any bill British or other During the punish the people women and the people children .
no , if the not . a person of the Parliament , not win wrestlers a subject British the Hon. the , the the the the employee of a criminal .
the treaty the Utrecht the 1713 , and the application of the Queen Anne du23 June 1713 , the borders the protection cheap by the treaty .
they stipulent that the Acadians the Canadian and the Act , land and that they not have the Great the least , a sentence made by a court .
that a member of the executive , the was a simple Lieutenant - Governor , the r?pudi? a prerogative Royal contrevenait the the right British basic the the time .
in 1729 , the Governor Richard Phillips the accountability the Acadians by letter of the protection against such actions .
the Colonel author the knowledge , although the levels and the m?pris? all the legislation which steel the Acadians .
the the king . was not the power to sign a person of d?portation , because of the Canadian 1297 the Canadian Britain Charter of England stipulent that the king . is not too , that the Canadian law , therefore , the one solution Lieutenant - Governor Acting .
this colourful the fact confisquer the foreign the the Acadians , br?ler their homes and their own , abattre their antibiotics .
he has violating the the families that he has shipboard the Canadian and awaited fragiles to be 4.71 as esclaves or condamn?es the Canadian servitude in the Belgian American .
memories that this d?portation officers and the fence the routing were entam?s when the treaty the 1760 the summer signed and staying to the 1763 .
the ridiculous judges we minds that they pr?sument that author the knowledge honorablement the banquet the treaty the 1760 .
is the dismay the one bureaucrate powerful the the duty professional was the protection of Acadian .
the the dismay the record that he not had no respect or to the treaty or to the Arts British .
the the decisions as those of the people , the unfounded , the the Senate . time , peace or the war .
Martin has asked the the actions deplores and fallacious , the " the aune the the standard of the devastation century .
the the actions as those of the were inadmissibles in the past and they the are all the day , the
a criminal not be not have the right to create the the legislation fundamental in a society civilis?e .
the unprecedented wrong the the private the first law legal and moral the sign not any what document which is the r?f?re today , for guide our civilization modern .
in expectation our laws the one reference to author , the the moque the Canadian correctly , our warriors Canadians and Canadians , the our martyrs the people fought and dollar their blood to the withdrawal the Hague murderers of people as author .
they have paid to get to the Canadian and tyrans the this kind . Sidney not the us and not actually not the bill to the forefront of their fusil .
the cash that the the direction of the new millennium , we will immortaliser record of excellence the author in the Competition the the court Supreme the the country .
what Blasphemy the Canadian correctly , our martyrs and the our ancestors Acadian , the first Europeans the the establishing the the Canada !
we let a terrible heritage to the generations montantes .
some people say that I , I , the Arts British .
they will trompent , I , I , the dismay the one psychotique brings , the one bureaucrate ?coeurant .
i think that the most of the Acadians think as I and that is ill mentally the lier was the Hon. own chief .
we know , the author not . not the Prime bureaucrate the the history , carriers the Hon. authority and the common to the the actions of misinformation , the violence and the Public .
unfortunately , he not be not the last , the .
i urge the judges the thought the the implications of their reaching .
if the " What the medical the the document the 1760 , the opposite that he has ex?cut? the part general and ordinary with the authority to the Arts and the the people similarities .
he is developing that he was the the grounds of d?porter the Acadians and that he has faithfully ob?i the the volont?s the Canadian corporation .
in recognizing the power legal the author of punishing the the documents legal the the name of the Arts , the Court Supreme does the medical the the Order of d?portation .
during the the centuries , the Arts the balay? this ill?galit? the the carpet .
this is the - be to this is the Order of d?portation not the ever been withdrawn and that the the world . in the knowledge .
this is the - be to this is the Acadians the summer wording excluded the the treaty the Paris the 1763 , and that is bannissement illegality is still in the books .
the cancellation of the Order the glad that the act . was indeed asked .
the d?menti the atrocities the one long history .
he is the possible that he is that the Canadian and abuse committed by the the bureaucrats similarities the the years of the long history of the colonisation , but I intentionnellement the this magnitude .
i do believe that the Canadian corporation that have agreed to shield ratified Metzner the the Acadians .
in the , I wish you read a letter that I have sent to the consul General of the Great - Britain , Houston , the 18 October 1994 , the fishing that is not . not a subject that I point to the first time , today .
i will you read the letter such as I , I written :
i have followed the close to advocating relating to the petitioning Mr. Warren Perrin the the expulsion , in 1755 , the the Acadians of the Nova Scotia Nova .
Mr. . Perrin the function redress to the great tragedy that the documented the Acadians .
this was the the issues similarities the same , the Canadian protection of the state .
the treaty the Utrecht the 1713 the copyright the Acadie the Canadian Britain , Britain .
the community Acadia was well established in Nova Scotia Nova been more of a century , this act occasional the summer committed .
unfortunately , the government British not the ever known the ill?galit? the the expulsion seeing the Hon. the by the representatives paternalistic , the Canadian key responsibility was the protection of learning and the foreign similarities .
the time , the past . vindication not to the state of this act .
the perp?tration the this act entache angry the history of the democracy . the Great - Britain , the this last is the proud .
i am sure that the majority of the Britanniques approuveraient the principle universal that he not there is the matter of prescription to the crimes against the betterment , particularly when the RCMP the the state caregiver the the crimes to the issues of their country -
in the the parliamentary , I am aware of the importance of learning the mistakes of the past , the " is that they not to occur have the
the expulsion of the Acadians the summer a mere barbare the the way of the ensuing huge .
if the summer a response ethnic bashful and plunges -
the government British the chamber , I , to the the people of the world world . statement constructive the the international Universal .
the prospect ethnic , the genocide and the violence to the citizens of a country are smears .
he is the the that neighbourhood of the centuries , but the justice the emportera , the
some say that I do sympathise not to the the problems v?cus by the Canadian people .
the the contrary , the Acadians and the aboriginal the summer of the friends , the beginning of the Belgian .
they have lived and worked together in the revised and many of the one of mariaient the umbrella the the other .
during the d?portation , the history related to the aboriginal are concluded the the lot of the refugee Acadian the armed the great risk .
i do I no ranc9ur the the place . the only allies the my ancestors .
a great many of Aboriginal are also address the the actions of reprisal the author .
in 1756 , author commanda that the the hostilities that transboundary to the Indian , either the the money cash to the the prisoners or the the " scalps the " men , women and children .
they were to the armed the the postal the ?puration ethnic similarly by author , the Acadians .
they have seen the first hand , the author r?servait the most of osaient the contrarier .
the judges of the Court Supreme not become will not imagine that a bureaucrate would be a civilized .
in a world civilized , a bureaucrate respectueux the Canadian law have been laid the the the judges wished read the the document , but it is the was not , the author .
the intent of the judges was commendable , but that suited .
the judges . the not think that the Parliament is incapable of respect to citizens .
the democracy is a treasury win the high fight and it deserves the opportunity to be implemented .
the judges should put the help to the place . to the the decisions the reaction of the ressentiments , the the range and the the marked .
they not have not bringing the the consequences that their interpretation will the our villages inshore and the the seaway the our resources limited to the sea and the Canadian land .
the judgment of the Court Supreme the previous Physicians the the effect , the ever lived in the revised and the respect mutuels .
the pilot , the wrath , the admiring , the greed and the racism are the the forces angry myriad the Bar .
many of the are questions but we refer , the answers .
the lawyers be done . frotter the hands of satisfaction .
Martin would the event be proud .
the purpose of my remarks today , not . not the " apitoyer the the malheurs the the past .
it would the effect of creating a mentality the victim the engendrerait the the feelings of inf?riorit? , the acrimony and the Beijing .
the other hand , it is sounds not to the noteworthy the the Acadians , the " the contrary .
you direz the - be the the motion of the the Acadians , some of mentionnent , pardonnent .
forgive , yes , the motion of the " to the
forget ?
never .
those who politicking are destined to repeat the mistakes of the past .
the community international begin . That the matter of the possibility of creating a court officers international permanent to engage in justice . the sin of offending , the betterment .
i would quote a quote the the speech that the Honourable Lloyd Axworthy the speech , the United Human , the 24 September 1998 , the critical clear that we r?p?tons the mistakes of the past , and I quote :
he we must no create the the statutory to the the people who contravenes the the legislation international that intervention did the people actions .
he is watching the culture the the impunit? .
the possibility of the lifestyle and the be handful must be a reality for the people who recourent the Canadian violence .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the time , was struck the the senator Comeau is elapsed .
the leave is the it leave to the senator Comeau the objective the intervention ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Comeau :
a nightmare cultural not to always not and the agresseur not . never dignified the honour .
the time . efface not the difficulty or the dismay the author .
he do the one group of monstres that we do we have v?n?rer .
he not be ever that the name that r?habilit? .
the would the following ?
the agreements , they not make the Canadian rehabilitative the author opening the door to their own rehabilitative ?
i ask that the Canadian Court Supreme the deadline the judgment Marshall the meantime the meeting of a commission of the and properly form of the medical the Canadian signing the author the somewhat document that is that the
the bill . require it is the support the honour and the integrity of the Crown ?
in the , the judges be the r?f?rer the one petition to the institution . the inquiry , tabled by the Acadians , 1760 .
Notez , the date of the petitioning !
this inquiry . the caduque the bill to prescription the the jury .
the Acadians not deserve - they not the be d?fendus or the be ineligible as the the sin of the m?fait the the Communist their d?portation by author ?
if author the ever thought in the right and with the concludes the Canadian Crown , the history will then written .
otherwise , author should be sentenced steadily , as it . deserves .
some will sweep the the revers the Canadian labour my request of inquiry in all?guant that is the one symbolisme not relevant to a time rack .
i would Albertan that he not there has not more likely that our commitment to the Crown , the Canadian Gouverneure general and the the robes Red the the judges of our Court Supreme .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Hays , the the name of the senator Finestone , the debate is adjourned . )
the Adresse the answer to Motion Honourable the end of the the debate on eighteenth on the Chair of Second the the debate
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . , pursuant to the opinion of the 2,500 November 99 , moved :
that the deliberations to the Order of the Order of the Honourable the the debate on the motion Honourable the the adoption of a Adresse the answer to the speech , the Throne , rendered by His Excellency the Gouverneure general the the two Houses of the Parliament , the completion the eighth on the Chair the the Order will have debated .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , in trying to understand the basis of this motion , I do I have I prevent the feeling that , if the government is restricted - to eight , for the precise - the number of days of debate on the speech , the Throne , the motion that he has profoundly the difficulty the , and the to the the honourable senators involved in the debate .
if the not . not the reason , then may , the that has the the " that the consideration .
let how the negotiations our work .
i recognize that some senators , have made to the the debate , and the intervention are limited to 15 minutes each .
four senators could the other the honourable each day .
the reason , both at the Order , the would a maximum of Physicians senators ,
the the pace of two hours by the , the the I do I do would have the beginning of the session , it would a total of 16 at the
the the scenario , only 32 senators could speak , the right to the Canadian the point of the Canadian the government , the great bill overall the Canadian session .
the Canadian the third of the members of the Senate might then to the the debate on this great vision that the government is supposed to the the business of the Canada .
honourable senators , he we must strive the look - the significance of this motion of living in restricting the debate .
we should always we listened serious the Canadian damage the the debate what the Senate . the " the study .
how the time , honourable the the party 1939 impose - they the licensing of time , the motion of the Canadian limit the debate ?
the Honourable John B . Stewart :
the speech . limited adjourn minutes .
the the oubliez not .
the senator Kinsella :
this deadline prove record that he is to the impact of the limit the eight days penalty for the debate in response to the speech , the Throne .
the senator Stewart the previous , as the the words of the great writer Joseph Joubert , the the said : "
he worth more debate . the question . the problem that the Canadian deal . the have discussed .
in the documents , the the officials frigate the the environment , the business of the Canada bogeyman the deal this issue for the summer , for the medical Parliamentary , the manner in the the it is raises not a significant debate .
i think that our democracy Parliamentary , the the public . a system bicameral the the Diefenbaker the the advisory the the time and the motion in the years 131 years , the summer a tremendous success , what the in saying some leadership of party , the other place .
the the level , with great the success , the freedom in our country .
i put all those who , win the the challenge of dollars in the world . the , a country , a system government , the freedom , the democracy and the rights of the human the summer as relentlessly .
honourable senators , I believe that we must resist the Canadian resist the limit the debate . " the the the Senate , as the deviants the the make this .
the result , I move , with the support of the senator DeWare , the Canadian motion . the not approach this , but that it be amended by the removal of the word " eight the and the replacement by the word " fourteenth the .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion to vote of the senator Kinsella ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . )
the Code offence
bill to the Second - Second Reading
the Hon. the Speaker :
if no other senator . " to the honourable , you , you are the feasibility of Motion to second reading ?
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
the Canadian continue , honourable senators , I wish to the the senator Oliver , we tell more to the subject of the previous and the Canadian sources of such practice .
the senator can the the us tell more on the the the the allowable the Ambassador the Rules and the the primacy ?
the senator Oliver :
if the Senate agrees to the second reading , the question is referred to the committee on the Canadian and business Constitutional and Constitutional .
i have a motion of the summer prepared by the Transportation and the the overlapping the the previous established to the Senate .
the answer directly to the question of the Leader Deputy , I could be the be read the motion to the the widespread by the - the Canadian psyche the the previous established .
i will therefore , to the
the the Honourable Senator Oliver , seconded by the Honourable Senator Di Nino ,
with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 58 ( 1 ) f ) the the Rules ,
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the the years of the study of the bill C S - 17 , the Act , Code offence respect to the victim criminal and the Canadian and concerns related , the Canadian the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament , that removal the the committee for the present study of the Bill C S - 6 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
if no other senator . " to the honourable , then , I move the Canadian . the Canadian second reading ?
the Honourable Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , then , I ask a question ?
i am I absent?e a minute and I wish frustration the years .
that is the the the the senator , the the fair ?
he said that he will notice of a motion to this effect and that he is carrying or we , we have before the Canadian motion ?
the senator Oliver :
i do I do the Canadian motion because the the bill to the not the not yet billion , reading of the second reading .
the senator Cools :
the senator Oliver :
he not to a not the the first , a notice .
i have read the motion by d?f?rence to the senator Hays , the " the requested that the I had the head .
the senator Cools :
the - be re - I was question I would question ?
when the senator plans to the us go record of this notice ?
the senator Oliver :
a time that the bill to the entire be read a second time .
the senator Cools :
this is the not very clear .
the senator wishes - the " that he does touch a motion to this effect , the second reading ?
the senator Oliver :
this is exactly .
the senator Cools :
this would the association .
i thank the senator .
the Hon. the Speaker :
if no other senator . " to the honourable , then , I move the Canadian motion of second reading ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed and the bill to the motion read a second time . )
referred to the committee , Adopted the Canadian motion of amendment
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . third time ?
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
i move that the bill to the Senate referred to the committee Standing the the business legal and Constitutional .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the Honourable Anne C . Cools :
he I would be the committee will constitu?s the chamber a or two days , not . - that the ?
the senator Oliver :
i wish to my motion in limbo the words , when obedience Committee be set , the case afforded the .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is the " the agreement for the Canadian motion be amended ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the Honourable Senator Oliver , seconded by the Honourable Senator Di Nino , moved that the bill to the Senate referred to the committee Standing the the business legal and Constitutional , when obedience Committee be set , the case afforded .
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion amended ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion amended is agreed . )
business legal and Constitutional
motion requesting the authority to use of documents and evidence collected in the the examination of the bill to the previous to the study of the bill to the present , Adjourned the the debate
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 58 ( 1 ) f ) the the Rules , I move :
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the Committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the the years of the study of the Bill C S - 17 , the Act , Code offence respect to the victim criminal and the Canadian and concerns related , the Canadian the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament , that removal the the Committee to the present study of the Bill C S - 6 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Honourable Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , if I understand , the this motion ? - be considered , not . - that the ?
the senator Oliver :
yes .
the senator Cools :
the senator Oliver the person - be free the debate to the us dealing , why he moved this motion .
the senator Oliver :
honourable senators , this motion is proposed the first , to save time and money to the people of the Canada .
many of witnesses . expressed their views to the subject of a bill to the the motion identical to the the us are now before .
the evidence . was transcrits .
the members of the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the cultivation all the witnesses who have appeared before they .
the the place . r?inviter all the witnesses to appear , the some of the costs of the state , for r?entendre their schedule , the the will eat the time , the staff and the the honourable , I hope that we will be sustainable by referred to Apply the people were transcrits , summarized and develop diffus?s to the us not afraid not to permit the work .
this is the main the Canadian this motion , honourable senators ,
the senator Cools :
honourable senators , I believe that the this motion strong the indication to a committee , to the
the proposal , some difficulties because the the Senate . does not the question that the Honourable Senator Bolduc the the the , if I have the right , the committee . the ever . the Canadian the bill to the " the Senate .
the result , the Senate . the ever been before the Canadian . .
therefore , the Honourable Senator we ask the giving the the ball the one of the us not have not taken to the
it . questions . problem and I do know that too how do .
if the Honourable Senator could we to the Canadian subsidiaries , I would welcome to the review .
if the not . not the case , I am prepared to adjourn the debate to the us can be the the time to better we tell the Canadian . .
the senator Oliver :
honourable senators , the motion . is not a hardships to the the the Senate .
this is a request expressed to the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional .
i c eyed the the this process . was used to the many occasions to the Senate to the collection of the evidence on -
the senator Cools :
he we , difficult to debate . the motion that we do we not the us .
you we , you get , but it is that drafting of the have a copy the us .
i do know that the well , what we talking .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , since the question . , not to the unanimous , the - be the debate the - the be adjourned and strength tomorrow ?
the senator Oliver :
i am aware of the fact that the committee . the not yet been set .
my motion . the GST that if the committee is set and when he the will .
i do I want to the the the Canadian . the tainted the the committee as tomorrow , he not there is still .
however , I hope that it is that the Ninth prolong .
i hope that it will be avoided the the committee before the Hon. the not be responsible for the legislation regarding the will certainly priority , to the few witnesses additional so that reached if the committee , Justice necessary .
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , I do I do would the the comments of the senator Cools , the sign that the the the Senate . the side - the or she - the wish delay unduly the adoption of this motion .
he I would be the motion is valid , but the senator Cools has the the issues and I believe that it has the right to the the vibrancy in the part of a debate on the motion .
i believe that the the senator Cools would have a copy written the Canadian motion .
in the the Leader Deputy of the government , I can say , the Honourable Senator Oliver , we do we no not the intent of the side - the Canadian delay unduly the adoption of the motion .
the senator Cools :
honourable senators , I would welcome to propose the adjournment of the debate .
i do believe that the one adjournment causerait a reason whatever , because of committees . the not yet been constitu?s .
i am concerned , because he is the one aspect came in this motion and I think that the Senate should the review of the proper .
if the Honourable Senator Oliver wish to the new , I do I do , the but I am pleased to propose the adjournment of the debate , seconded by the senator Milne .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I enjoyed these remarks as the the issues . the senator Oliver , to the us can meet the Rules .
the senator Oliver :
honourable senators , I am , the fact , with the Canadian suggestion of the Honourable Senator Hays recommendation that we remain the debate .
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the committee on the Canadian and aboriginal Peoples the the years of the study of the bills of the S - 10 and S - 12 ( Bill S - Seniors government . the First Nations of the Canada ) the Canadian the Thirty - fifth Parliament be providing the the committee for the present study of the bill to the S - 14 .
the motion . was a " and Senators and agreed .
he is the many of precedents to the subject .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Cools , the debate is adjourned . )
the consequences of the Union monetary European
leave to the committee , the business foreign the CCN the the staff
the Senate proceeded to the study of the second report of the committee on the Canadian and business foreign ( budget - study on the Union monetary European ) , the " the Senate . 2 November 99 . - ( - ( Senator Stewart ) .
the Honourable John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , I move :
that the Senate does the second report of the Committee on the Canadian and business foreign the " the Senate . 2 November 99 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the senator Stewart :
honourable senators , I wish to some words on the report , the in providing my motion of the third report .
you find the Canadian reading of the Journals of the Journals of the Senate . the 2,500 November 99 that a $ the 36 $ $ the summer approved the the Senate . the committee , the business foreign the the Union European .
we have spent that amount of world . the years of the last session .
we fly today , the Canadian portion of the budget , not the not been used to our study on the NATO the surgeons to the passage of this study the the years of the new session and that a $ 75 the 10 per $ the well accepted .
in the case of the Prime report , all the fund . was used and we fly the licensing of 138,481 500 $ .
in terms , he remains in the budget of the last session , for the two education confondues , a balance of 459 400 $ 200 the not have not yet been harmonizing .
the Hon. the Speaker :
if no other senator . I take the honourable , I will put the motion to the Hon. the
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is passed , and the report is passed . )
business foreign
the amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty the the Atlantic North - the Canadian the report budget of the committee on the study
the Senate proceeded to the study of the third report of the committee on the Canadian and business foreign ( budget - study on the relationship of the Canada with the NATO and the peace - the peace ) presented the the Senate . 2 November 99 . - ( - ( Senator Stewart ) .
the Honourable John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , I move :
that the Senate endorse the third report of the Committee on the Canadian and business foreign the " the Senate . 2 November 99 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is passed . )
the strategies to the answer to the needs of the aboriginal the federal - activated
inquiry
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the inquiry of the Honourable Senator Chalifoux , calling the attention of the Senate on the the strategies to the answer to the needs of the aboriginal the federal - activated . - (
the Honourable Senator Rompkey , P ) .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the the inquiry of the Honourable Senator Chalifoux , if no - to the means to the honourable , the debate be considered as complete .
the crisis in the area crop
the Canadian a question of emergency public , under the the article 60 the the Rules
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , we are upon the Canadian reseller the the Order of the Order .
i call the Honourable Senator Gustafson .
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , pursuant to the rule 61 ( 1 ) the the Rules , I move :
that the Senate adjourned now , the Canadian before the one issue of emergency public , the knowledge of the crisis . the Agriculture .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Honourable Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators , I thank His Honour the Speaker of the have the Canadian should this debate .
i am a oblig?e the , to the
i do appreciate not part of the committee on the Canadian the Agriculture and the the forestry .
i grew , middle urbain .
i know very little of the " the Agriculture , but as I working in the Defence of the poor , I know that the the motion that the despair .
this is that the I have observed when I have attended the one meeting with the the farmers and the the women of farmers . the Alberta , the the Manitoba and the Canadian Saskatchewan , there has some weeks .
i have heard about the Canadian serious crisis . traversait the Agriculture , the saisies imminentes and the the effects devastating the the families of farmers .
this untold , honourable senators , the product in a country , what the be the the the fact , as receipt the the world .
honourable senators , I will now you quote the the evidence the Act , beginning , the the citations of letters that we have showed the women of farmers , the Non , the parents and the great - parents .
the first letter from the Carol Nicholson :
i would write to you express my concern to marry the farmer and the mother the comments of the life crop .
the life on the hard was pleasant before the but the things have the difference -
i am marry the my husband , Mary , since 13 years .
the first years , the hard not have not been so bad , but the past years . was d?vastatrices to us .
my husband , had the the same a job for the Canadian the railways the Canadian table and adequately the the needs of the family .
he has also the the Agriculture , the so that the life is really painful to the .
he has the usual the the red the 4 at the the morning and the work , the area , the 2,500 at the the following the afternoon , for second go to the Employment to the defray the the needs of the family .
as it is looking the WTO the other arrangements , some day , was able to the night , anti only a time or two of sommeil .
some nuits , I entendais pleurer and I knew that is the my husband because the the not win . This not joining the two struggling the in working and the hard - up .
he wishes simply that the children compete the same things that the other children .
the health . d?t?riore , he has lost . the negative , he is the repli? the the - the , he essaye . the the the person to try to out of the impasse .
i do the in dealing that the , but it is my husband that I wish to the one understands the tactics .
i am in a state d?pressif serious the case of the calls phone and the the victim .
he has learned that I also I take a job to the foreign and now I must do my children of 1 , 10 and 11 years , everything .
this is very hard and I pleure all the day , I must the lurch , I am asking how they will and the people have the Canadian I -
my daughter Amanda the Canadian and problems , the school , it has the the difficulty the the examination of the Environment .
the the school , the moque the it because the it is the not the Gallery habits and that it is the not the same thing that the other children .
my husband Tyler is the by a th?rapeute because the the record that the time . durs and that he is the Canadian the justice for us .
he also claims be understandable to stay in the us .
the many , the night , he dort the the Right the country before .
when the the request why , he does the the means , the father .
Joshua , the b?b? , is little , but it bad the tension the atmosphere in the house and the only the not broad not the parents often .
he is with the one or the other .
he pleure when I worries work and the essaye the not . " Now the the most .
this is tragic to a child of the " minimize get .
the life . is not easy to the hard and I hope the first , are the us will receive the the assistance . soon .
my husband and I , we do we see the , the the not . not treating to our wedding .
my husband habille the b?b? and I , amending the the work , the kind of the work .
the motion of Tibet ?
the b?b? that the trimbale the one place to the other in the cold and that he is r?veiller the the sieste .
i , the RCMP the cost we harc?lent the the telephone .
the government . the price of the Food , the person to allow the sale ?
this is the not the small amounts of these sales the will the problem . hit -
we are all well taken .
is the the the somewhat a we still ?
that so that the our convictions shaped ?
our children suffering .
they not have not participate in the activities Scottish with the other , because the us not in the not the average .
l and the calendar are the the face tristes to the children and their parents , threatened , marital because the people . the way to give .
we had a fund to the students when the things McGrath , the but we have had use of money for another the cheques .
now , the children who , restricts the College -
i do know what they will .
i , I still . " that the Canadian life , the hard at the , I do appreciate that at the
in closing , I would supplie the coming to help to the families of the community crop the suffering .
aidez the children who live on the the exceptions .
i wish to see more my children smile , songs and the free of pressure .
the life boilers , as if the government newcomers simply the most and precision conscience of the fact that he is the Canadian and problems of obtaining and that the the children , abandoned also .
here , the late , honourable senators ,
he is the first , I mentioned that I must operators the Communist the emergency the Canadian crisis crop ( line 1 , 800 ) the make send the fax the I do I , proposing to the service of resale distance to the Canadian workers impay?es .
during the product , we have had to the many calls for the Canadian and records and the the repair .
the that , we have borrowed a phone potent .
the 10 October , we have had call the doctor to a contingency .
as it is there has not the doctor in our entire , we have had to a interurbain .
we do could the not call a op?ratrice .
my mother is Mrs. the July and , the least , they have combined , I do gentlemen the not have them with my family or with my father to have the the shelters .
we exploitons a firm rock been 26 years .
he is a the one firm Joint the 2,500 500 tugboat and the one of the conditionnement the the Pioneer the value added .
during 17 years , I found and I have worked the the foreign to fund the hard .
as we were to the work . the two , we have had hire the the assistance to the hard .
the the money that gagnions would the the employee and , when the - the motion party to the end of four years , we have had responsibilities . the work , the hard and the the foreign .
he has been easy to keep the electrical , since a year .
this is the Canadian Saskatchewan coal Corporation that we have received the most regularly the the calls of cost .
the very well , the " when the motion forced to ?taler the mis?res the one employee of a great society as the - that the
as always , I have grown a great potager .
i have spent the summer and the fall , there work and the d?sherber , I have congel? and the in Sydney the events .
my two cong?lateurs are driving the ras aircraft the l?gumes and the fruits .
i am proud and satisfied the devastating the event esteem my family , a year .
when I have received a letter of the corporation I say that the service would be markers , the opinion , the payment . " decency not , I have made conscience that the my work , all my instinct and l?gumes , risquaient the the losing because the the electrical would coup?e .
i do so that the word that the so I would the " to the one city and the make call the one bank the food while the the resources that I have will ruined .
he is the truly a thing , clearly , who , occur the event esteem our country . live completely tall .
i staircases . the the the us to the the room , the lunchs , architects , but that the existence , when we miss the sugar , the expenditure the p?te , the margarine , the Chatham ?
that the existence , when we miss the lessive , the shampoing , the paper the toilette ( we do achetons the Canadian suffice - mouchoirs ) .
he is the Canadian and that the " no , not taking itself , the .
we creating the full v?g?tariens , because the us not have not the average of cost of abattoir to do abattre our products .
here is that actions a place lady :
each year , we see this community struggle for survive .
each year , it becomes the small .
we do we are the average of repair the Church .
our centre community we ask the Canadian time and the charitable the food because the the number of the operation of indebtedness .
when I will I tour , I do see the way of new , the invisible , no , it hope .
i do see that the the things which the d?t?riorent , the rapetissent or milking .
in our community , the babies are very few .
the farmers have all of 45 and 85 years .
i am asking why we in this is the
i do the right mood and the health of my husband time implemented , the advisory .
my children be to all their efforts to come to make , the students and the activities Scottish .
i still my old mother the correct because the the " lack of time to go to the visit .
i am missing , prepared when he is a the use of go?ter , the the funeral , the the bonspiel and the the mariages .
i am the the motion . , the the need to help to the Canadian a senior , the one incident or the one death .
i can hear my children , they have speak to the inconvenience the Canadian day , the so that is in the control of the tracteur , when they have contribute a sandwich .
the most , if the the thousands of the people , the as I , the 1958 their seaway crop , the paying - we all ?
there has the rather , jobs for us all ?
the production Article will it into the us ?
the land will the provinces cultiv?es the manner in taking , rather , food for my small - child and their children ?
this letter from the LaMarsh .
in here . the "
we have tried to diversify our crops , but the evaluation , the money .
we have also quoting the first sell , but who would rather tackle to buy the the land ?
the so that a the achetait , after the paid all the Income , he not to see no , the matter .
you , you turn how the farmers . the suicid?s these two years in the
we were proud of the farmers , but we are now reduced the the state of mendiants .
the - be the so we are installions in a country . the third world , the government ' jugerait . the us to the
why should the us esteem of the people of the planet and the feeling of die the hunger ?
why the government refuses the Canadian understand and not agree - the not the magnitude of our needs ?
please listen our supplications before the the not be too late !
honourable senators , I have concluded my pleas .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I am very pleased to the matter and debate . the question .
as the motion of real concern to concern , I thank the senator , we do the opportunity to the subject .
i will begin by try to balance a little the debate that we will hear today , the
i commend my colleague the the cabinet , the Minister of the Agriculture and the the Agroalimentaire , the Hon. the and the Hon. commitment to the respect to a phase national Joint the feasibility the reaction to the problems financial the typical certainly the farmers , in particular in the provinces , the Prairies .
i preface that these problems confronting the some farmers to the - and I am hasten the the state of the area crop remains in the whole . , and robuste .
in general , the income . the close to the trends the long term and the export of goods agri are the Canadian increase .
( 1610 )
we have leapt the year , the Canadian 22 billion . $ the events agricultural and food .
the separately , the challenges the the farmers have had the challenges the the years of the last year . the not collegial .
the years of the events of basic , the cost , the market international , the economy and the conditions anyway fluctueront , the time to the extreme .
this time , this , however , our farmers have had cope the the combinaisons particularly trying : the the price low to their products and the the cost of production high ; a reduction of the request of the major markets and a continuing the the offer World of goods key ; and the conditions anyway the the larger and the the floods or the the s?cheresses .
the Canadian leadership of the government , the the representatives of the governments and the the farmers have sought from a solution to a problem , is the so , glance that he not . not wear in the the country .
the nature and the intensit? the one - the vary the the regions and the events Alimentarius .
that a solution Universal becomes . almost a pain - Cuba .
the the government . however , the " that the .
the Minister of the Agriculture , Ross the close collaboration with the provinces and the territories to the latest the program of protection of the income crop in which the two levels of the investiront , the , not least , a billion . $ by the .
the government has brought the basis of the reforms to long term , allow the latest , with the time , the ability to the producers of the U the Canadian crisis . the income , and the us undoubtedly , the make the dollar the the future worries .
in July the , by the , the Minister of the Agriculture and his counterparts the the provinces and territories have begun to leap a number of the problems with the development of a program of the " the long term , the Canadian origin related to the income crop .
in the part of the discussions , the the importance of need to ensure the the the the program , long term operating effectively with the CSRN , the assurance - grown and the program supplementary particular , each province , educated the system of protection of the income crop .
in August and the September , the the opportunity to meetings sanction the the country exporters the food agricultural , the Minister of the Agriculture , as being a struggle to the the system commercial international g?n?re the the income senior to the farmers Canadian .
he is a the Canadian battle coincide to the the rules of the beginning playing .
the Minister has the Canadian Position of negotiation of the Canada for the next meeting of the Organization World of the trade .
in the the support of the government and the the industry , he has repeated the removal of the grants to the export , a reduction of the government Finance . support the the Agriculture , the one of the distorsion trade and a lack increased the the farmers Canadian , more of markets .
these measures are the the evidence important to the strategy overall to the latest the income of the producers .
the time , honourable senators , the government has also the in the Canadian and the to increase the income , for easier the access to a system , ecosystems the full , for speed the access to the loans and the the savings and the increase the purchase the the time appropriate .
the harshness the impact of a drop of the income , the government . the Canada has developed , in consultation with the producers and the provinces , the Program of the in the Canadian origin related to the income crop , as physician ACRA , the Canadian 1.5 billion . $ .
the government , provides 60 per - the funding , and the provinces , the 40 per the remaining .
it is 900 million . $ , honourable senators ,
he is a the one of the two years , the intent of the farmers who are the the actions with the the small the income criticism .
the government . the Canada has also did a commitment to the Minister , the Canadian forces to the farmers . the cash supply in the part of the ACRA ; otherwise , the the farmers are the access to quickly to the fund the people have the , the the place . , expect that all the calculus that made to the end of 1999 , in the reason the request . the .
agriculture and Agroalimentaire Canada has developed the the point of bilingual the documentation quick to help the farmers to assess the payment which they have a .
honourable senators , we facilitons also the access to the CSRN .
we have reduced assoupli the rules provisions the the retraits the the accountability the stabilization of the income net and the the Been in the last .
in determining , 41 $ farmers additional the access to quickly to more of the .
the Canadian reseller the the months of June , by the Canadian and consultations with the the provinces , the Minister has announced the the changes to the CSRN the gastrointestinal 117 million . $ the most of the provision of the farmers .
the retraits the the CSRN and the cash to the CHST the the ACRA should , the the Estimates , ended the way appr?ciable the drop of the income in the Prairies , the and the Saskatchewan , particularly .
the Minister of the Agriculture , labourers the the the the full $ the 1.5 billion . dollar grappling the the program ACRA the cash to notice and 1999 .
in addition , the Canadian 105 per farmers . a slip the the other . the country framework of almost 1,2 billion . $ in their accountability the stabilization of the income net , copyright they can do the the retraits as now .
this is the that the people serve .
in the 26 $ farmers the people have the " up to the Canadian 274 million . $ to the extension this period difficult .
in Saskatchewan only , the Canadian reseller the the months of October , some 13 per producers have puis? in their CSRN and retired the Canadian 119 million . $ .
this are the the amounts internal the ability to a great many of families of farmers to the back on ethnic .
a myriad of the honourable the inoculation will the Canadian the state of the difficulties that are the farmers and their family , the summer affected by the floods and the drought , and compatissent , as the their lives .
recognizing the problem , the government . the Canada has worked the police with the province of the Saskatchewan , improve the system of the - grown the argument the so , farmers .
the harshness the difficulties of the producers , he has assoupli the rules of the system of the - grown , namely , benefits , accelerating the treatment of the CCN and facility the access to the system .
the new legislation . was announced that was the and the farmers . the Saskatchewan , affected the " 25 $ the acre the assurance - grown up on the Nunavut not ensemenc?e , in mills the the 25 $ the acre have assurance to the Nunavut not ensemenc?e the Constitution of the system of the - grown the basis .
a place supplement the 25 $ the acre the summer awarded the the farmers . the Saskatchewan and the the Manitoba , not have been plant is spring .
this , is provided to the Canadian payment interim in the part of the program ACRA .
the government , the so on the the government to the help the farmers to manage them income in equipment , the the people have the the purchase the most earlier can the Canadian season of rBGH .
i quote the numbers to try to balance the debate , but not to deny the serious problems facing are faced the farmers .
the area crop does the serious problems , the not be the highlights .
conjugu?s , the factors that I have mentioned , low cost of the events of basic and the fact that the rules . the not playing - and the the area of our economy in a situation . difficult .
this is why , the " the time when we talking , the serious talks have the one of the federal and provincial .
the most later , the week , the the Prime Minister of the leading with the first ministers of the Saskatchewan and the the Manitoba , the subject .
the Minister federal - the Agriculture , Mr. Vanclief , is the Polish Standing with his counterparts provincial .
the situation is critical and the government , enjoyed , adjustments .
it is , I would ask the " forgive the l?ger gap .
he is the council that the government , and the provinces , borrowers the responsibility of the situation crop and the the area crop .
the right to the problem . section not in the adoption of a measure unilateral by the government , the
the example , the Canadian and information recent from the Canadian province of origin of the senator Gustafson , the amounts aside the the support of the Agriculture , Saskatchewan , the board provincial and known a drop very draconienne been the beginning of the years 90 .
yesterday , the Auditor provincial and the Saskatchewan , Convervatives Strelioff , the announcement that the amounts aside the the program agricultural by the province of Saskatchewan , 1996 , the Canadian 70 per been 1991 , 1992 .
the this time , the amounts aside by the province , the program agricultural , Saskatchewan , setting the 1,2 billion . $ .
in 1997 - 98 , they were the 251 million . $ .
but it was Minister can the present in the capital , papers that the government . the Canada , benefits immediately 1.3 billion . $ and repartir then , crunch the the outrage , the same geopolitical the brain the record of the home government .
this is a problem federal - provincial .
he must be solved by the two levels of the .
Mr. . Ken Krawetz , the - speaking of the Finance . the Opposition official in Saskatchewan , crunch the present crisis . the income crop to the government provincial .
when the Auditor provincial the fact , the the cuts Conducted by the government provincial , he has said :
this is the reason for the country economy crop 21.2 the problems that it does the the time at the
honourable senators , the the the product to the level of the government provincial and the Saskatchewan , namely , need to a response federal - provincial approaches the this serious situation .
he not to a not the one of the " may require the advantage of conservation partisan .
this problem importance too , the to the country .
the challenge to challenge is too great .
the problem which are faced the farmers . the Prairies . is not imagination ; it is real .
he not the not seen the Order yesterday and the not be not resolved tomorrow .
i have talked the efforts loans from the date , the government .
i hope that the the assurance that the Minister of the Agriculture and the government continues to show the the public , the respect to the area . important and that they consentiront the new efforts in a compassionate future .
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , the existence of a crisis in the area crop . the no doubt .
he is dynamic that the Agriculture is the crisis been mothballed .
he is some as the the governments , provincial and federal , demanded the time to other for help the farmers .
the difference , today , the the not . not the us not have not the right to long term , the motion that the government , not to commandeer not the the Canadian the in Saskatchewan and the the Manitoba , in the Prairies , the , not . not the same that the " the Canada .
i say , the , the my opinion , all the facts and all the numbers sited by the senator Boudreau are supplied .
i do I no reason , douter the the numbers .
it affects the teachers , the doctors , the lawyers , the pompistes and the serveuses .
the fault , the numbers , the the world . Chalifoux , the the the farmers are in a situation extremely serious .
this is a situation . long term related to the officials and the the lower the Canadian the international , therefore , the the export .
however , for a reason or a place , the farmers . live this time , this in a situation extremely serious .
a delegation provincial is soul the Ottawa to clamour the the assistance .
the - be the people have the people have to the , the - be have the people have to the .
they include the Canadian state of the problem and the need to the Competition immediately .
they formerly and guide a response whatever the the government , the
what has been the answer ?
the rentrez the honourable , we will review of figures , a time . "
he not there was not the political the work together , this will the look the Saskatchewan and the Manitoba , a look different .
the senator Cohen the reference some letters constituents the the parliamentary .
we refer all of the correspondence d?sesp?r?es .
honourable senators , the problems in Saskatchewan . clauses not only to the issues agricultural international .
they come to the part of the fact that the Agriculture and the issues agricultural own , the Saskatchewan , the the lower the Canadian list of priority of the issues agricultural .
he not there is the the Order of political crop national the needs the Canadian and variations and the the varying own , the various regions .
we do osons not dealing a strategy national .
we are pr?occupons , the the problems own , the farmers . the Quebec and the the Ontario .
we know that the Saskatchewan and the Manitoba have the other problems , the subject of the problems of the producers of fruit the Canadian British - British and the the farmers . the Canada Atlantic .
we imputons all our problems , the situation international .
we can speak to the Elimination of the grants and continue active a strategy , the Canadian leadership Mr. Marchi , for equipment the United - United and the European the clean their grants .
the fact is that they not the people . the in the past and that they not the agreements . the .
yet , we back to strive to the same strategy .
we do we do . the new , the novateur or the different .
our leaders federal be brought a strategy , as they the people . with the group of Cairns the , the one some of the years .
it is the fishing the result of the gains , and we in removed , the benefits in the adequacy trade numerous .
the motion of new ideas McCullogh ?
if we do we not the strategy , we reach the Canadian pulled the the Americans and the the Europeans .
no in the speech , the government , not me leave hope that he has understood that he is specially the question of a new deal .
we in the in a leadership striking with the extent legislation regarding the board Canadian of the Wheat .
we have suggested to the board of the Canadian the board Canadian of the Wheat the field of this , we , the farmers Canadian and the the west of the Canada , the place . develop the the program of support legitimate the the intent of the farmers .
the example , what is our policy of marketing of the Food ?
the problem , the motion that the government , not understand that the the right to the Canadian Jewish and try to find the new solutions to the crisis . the Agriculture in the West .
the first ministers provincial not have not always , they not more , including the message .
he has learned of the election to the r?veiller , the umbrella and their to understand that we do we not to the actions with a problem Standing which he is that a solution to long term .
we are in full crisis .
the ministers Goodale and Vanclief players , the the motion that the problem . problem with the program existing .
during the people understanding of proof their point , the farmers are Tax .
he not we remain the the Canadian great Polish agricultural .
the government must play Games - playing .
if the the the the Agriculture continue to be a way of life copy the way of production of the food the us are required ?
we can continue to manipulate the numbers , he remains that the farmers . the Saskatchewan , the many of the " whose their land .
the families peer the the pressure . previous .
we do we not in the Canadian support the Agriculture , Saskatchewan , we once the this lanc?e .
honourable senators , the time frame is elapsed .
the the speech . was heard in the two Houses .
all the parties other that the Canadian the government pretending that the debate . was significantly long and that he is the present the other a commitment co .
if the Prime Minister , or his Minister of the Agriculture , the Donkin a balancing the emergency the the farmers . the Saskatchewan , the future visible to contingent of the people , he and would the one Gallery of recognition .
today , the us comptons the votes .
the Saskatchewan and the Manitoba . will not the majority .
he not . not in our interest of soft this situation . the provinces .
these past will amen?es the responsibilities their share of the program , will led and they have already indicated that agreed .
the government , it reject the responsibility on the other and the not the way proposed the partnership to the Order .
the Leader of the government to the Senate . redit that the government ?tudierait the numbers arguments and that he retirements the Senate in the the committee sanction the the representatives of the provinces and the Canadian community crop .
the government , is the only to support the the program , into the Canadian good results .
all the organizations agricultural , the governments provincial and especially the farmers schools the contrary .
honourable senators , the will be hurts to the the government come to help to those who want to the government . supply Article and the the Canadian Saskatchewan and the Manitoba continue to do the Canadian the fragments Canadian ?
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I thank the Honourable Senator Gustafson the have initiated the debate . emergency the this important issue .
i thank the honourable Spivak , Andreychuk , Gustafson , Tkachuk and Sparrow the , during the spring and the fall , the many asked the the issues . the government on the problems that does the area crop , particularly in Saskatchewan and the the Manitoba .
honourable senators , he is important to the the , when the government , working with the provinces , the Friends agricultural , the farmers and the producers to the preparation of a plan , and that the plan not operating not , he not be not in the attention . the blame the the government , the the motion too often the case .
however , the not . not a program developed , Republic only by the government , the
this is a program federal which the provinces involved .
the provinces , curling the position that program with the government , the
they believed that he lend the producers agricultural , having the the whole of the country .
h?las , it is the not been the case .
when the government , the the the right to the criteria , to the program and find the the average of the make away , we must be the somewhat the Canadian valid .
when the government , the out that he not . not the only considered in the and that he not be necessary to the the the other parts of volunteers to the program drafted not agreeable not , we do we not act .
this is the not a problem , NDP only to the government , the
since the ACRA is a program , 60 / 40 , it means that the provinces must offset 40 43 of the cost .
the one of the most important issues facing the farmers . the south - western the the Manitoba and the one of the Canadian the Saskatchewan , the opposite , the the floods .
the Prime Minister Romanow bearer Vanclief , the Minister federal - the Agriculture , in the people to a settlement .
they will have heard the one $ 75 the 50 $ by acre the ground , ensemmenc? .
that the motion ? the past in my province ?
the Prime Minister , the the present the the Egyptian , the announcement of the not sign this agreement .
the government , not win the Canadian the prior to the participation of the province would the program of the - grown is a program joint .
this is the not a program federal unilat?ral .
he is important to the exact why the ACRA not operating not .
clearly , the criteria accomplished by all the partners . was not the good .
the - that I would
there has the in a attempt deliberate the end of the one of the not fonctionnerait not ?
the , I do the understanding that the
i think that the senator Andreychuk the reason , he would special be most sensitive to the problems of the Saskatchewan and the the Manitoba .
let why the program . the not the the results Province .
the honourable Spivak and Andreychuk have brought to my attention of the the the farmers were feeling of the highest the one fund . the payaient 400 , $ or bracket $ to the the remplisse the risks .
clearly , the motion of the mistake .
if the risks was so complicated , we have had provide the the farmers the assistance necessary to the obligations .
we do the we not the .
he is unfortunate that we doubled miss this opportunity , defines the the beginning of the break academic , the CCN and the joint the young students in accounting for help the farmers to fulfil the risks .
we do the we not the .
the senator Sparrow the fact out that , for a number program , the risks . rentraient the not in the expenditure the were wholly .
this was the - be a program different , but we do we not responded , so , the kind of details that we have had the make .
that the motion ? the past ?
the one of the 1.5 billion . $ , the 900 million . the government , the view my most recent statistics , only 236 million . was harmonizing .
the senator Gustafson :
the money is also go to the weather the .
the senator Carstairs :
the will the rest of the money ?
the senator Spivak :
the the weather the .
the senator Carstairs :
why these farmers in the need not have the people . eligible to the fund ?
how can the us to the so that they receive the money ?
the the us not begin to speak to new money , we must be to the the farmers . the Saskatchewan and the the Manitoba receive the money . committed .
i am fully outset that the Minister Vanclief working of hard - up , defines to find quickly the way of pursuing the rest of this money to the farmers . the Saskatchewan and the the Manitoba .
we must be the price .
we must understand that , the person other day , our history , the price not have been so there , in $ comparable .
we must work in cooperation , and I do about the only to the provinces and the the government , the
the Leader of the government to the Senate . the the contributions reduced that the government . the Saskatchewan , the the Agriculture .
i am d?sol?e the " that the same in the " the Manitoba .
the the world . priesthood and decided to spend the to the area .
honourable senators , the the changes . complex the dismantling the evolution of the Agriculture in the west of the Canada .
we do we not yet responded as it is the all these changes .
the only way , we r?ussirons the island to the needs of the farmers . the west of the Canada , the motion , the governments federal and provincial , the farmers and the organizations of producers Executive all .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I thank His Honour the Speaker of the fishing . debate .
some of the honourable not the Middle the - be not , but it has the one time represented a riding crop that I know , the soitSte. Rose , the the Manitoba .
i have also , appreciate the comments from the the other side of the House , the most of the senator Carstairs , the the Leader of the government .
i know that their true , Alma .
i do difference not the fact that the the ones . was reaching the government and the other .
we must work together , but it remains a number of the point of clarification .
the my opinion , the not agree that runs the character none of the problem .
he not agree that the the committee on the program , into the people . the not the importance to the time at the
the problem is urgently .
why the problem is the the so important ?
the situation is the worst that the the years at the the the farmers are many more debt .
they have spent the the amounts incredible to the acquisition of machines and the intrants .
now , the Banking , highways the courts of farm , being of cash .
the farmers . meant not to pay their taxes .
the - be the - the true that the government . the Saskatchewan , cut - cent per his contribution financial the Canadian community crop , but the government , the leading to the problem .
when I speak to the government , the I do mean not only the government Liberal .
i wish to the government , the one of the cut - 60 per - granting to the transportation , the Canadian fall the deficit .
this decline was too high and the Westray too soon and it has been the the consequences surviving to the farmers . the Manitoba .
he not there has the the government , the fact , assiette tax enough important to provide the the amount of closer billion . $ .
the governments provincial , and the important to sins the people were capable by the authorities previous , and God knows that they have been many , not have not the assiette tax adapt to their coming to help .
the provinces have reduced the deficit and enable the the money to the health and the the education .
the government , the matter now , a surplus of 60 billion . $ and the " the years of the next years .
the the money is destined to the fund . staffing of the scholarships the students , the millennium and the Canadian and operations which are important , but who is a not a crisis urgency .
as the honourable senators , the said , the one way of life is the gap the perks .
the the economy crop . the West is becoming the the impact of the mental vertically .
the Cargill and the other companies , empareront the most of the Canadian hailed agricultural if we maintenons the Cape .
if you not want to the that the rarity , you must act quickly .
sometimes , the best way of that is the manner in the corridors .
these Canadians . productive are made to the environment , a war economic .
i wish to the honourable senators know that our farmers are productive .
yet , the government . , not see the tremendous pervasive competitive the the farmers Canadian the the area . leapt the year , for twenty billion . $ .
this is the not the access to the market , is the case here , but the price paid to the product .
the access to the market the help the producers , but when this access is finally assured , he is the - be done too late .
the Competition is impossible the the market . Tax when the grants paid by the United - United and the European are roughly the well , the time . the the government . the Canada can contribute .
the message that the government has delivered to the farmers , the University of the first ministers provincial and week , not had nothing to surprisingly .
the government to the fact that the the entry their the Canadian assistance might .
they are university in July .
Dwain Lingenfelter , the Minister of the Agriculture the Canadian Saskatchewan , states that the numbers of the government , conventions the - be the serious mistakes .
obviously , the opinion is biased because the the working and living in Saskatchewan , the the the myth with the farmers and that he weighed the problem of almost .
the fight , the officials federal and , the the words of Rex marry , the advantage of the one particular d?form?e by a p?riscope the vision the long distance to the
the Minister Lingenfelter the union that the numbers federal surestimaient the gains , there was in the case of the cash in order to the ACRA and the the CSRN .
the one way or the the other , these new estimates indicate a reduction of 60 million . $ the the costs of whales in Saskatchewan , the the motion appr?ciable .
the not know that the the Iraqi these figures .
the Minister of the Agriculture the the Manitoba , said that the Estimates federal official to the Saskatchewan and the Manitoba , the people were published in July , kept valid because the very little of things have changed since .
however , the ministers provincial and said that the payment of equalization the claim billion . $ the the chapter the the trade , the people were asked the Ottawa , was well , the
the the end of the fact , the important to estimates , he is ind?niable that our farmers have the Canadian assistance in the
they are fully related to the economy and the the trade , the international World .
the price that the farmers are paying for the foreign and services . time , increase .
i am referring to the engrais , the the herbicides , the the fuel , the the services public , the the assurance and the the repair .
the provinces only , the Estimates , adverse of 60 and 1980 $ by acre .
this amount . includes not the magazines , the repair the the property and the purchase to the equipment , can achieve 40 $ by acre .
when the Wheat the vendait 160 $ the elderly and the theory 355 $ the elderly , the farmer earned in the Canadian the somewhat the .
this year , the price of the Wheat the beneficiaries the skills per - the OECD the Canadian average of the five years in the the price of the theory the left the one third .
the price of the events . billion , a the the levels of the lower have graced , for three reasons .
the first is that this year , the as the year , the Canadian production . far Superior the Canadian average .
the second is that the request the left in the Canadian the situation financial in the world , particularly in Asia .
the third is that our major competitors , the United - United and the Union European , guarding their farmers . the conditions trade . discovered in their guardians the high grants .
as the same the plight the members of the committee , the Agriculture , they will have made in Europe , these grants encouragent the surproduction , the theory a saturation the the market and the drop the price .
the grants the are awarded the future . problem is to our farmers .
since 1993 , the Canada has cut - 45 per the assistance to the taxation the the Agriculture .
the United - United the people reduced the allocating per , and it is the not known not kept in the Union European .
the OECD that the 17 $ American by acre , in average , the assistance leave to all the farmers - not only to the producers of Grain and the seeds ol?agineuses .
this , is the 45 $ by acre the the United - United and the 362 $ by acre in the Union European .
the government . support of the income additional outlined the fair as a the delegation of the Saskatchewan , the the cash the equalization trade , the farmers . the Saskatchewan wealthy collectively about 48 million . $ .
the evolving these losses to cast million . $ the the Manitoba .
no area industrial not be hoped stay competitive in the types circumstances .
he is another the problem of the grants international .
the - time , the government , the help more our farmers .
if the our farmers will put their land , a " a , the the Banking and the the multinational the ability to allow the northern that the government cut - the ent?ter or the the country . the UE r?duisent the assistance to the relationship to their farmers .
the Canadian , the the students and the the trip the European the the committee on the the Agriculture , we know , the the poules will the the models before the the UE r?duise the assistance .
if the government continues to follow this line of conduct , he went a way , much for our country .
lacking the the governments , not become whatever provide the assistance to the time , the great crisis , the government of the Canadian the money .
he would the average of help the producers food the dark this period difficult .
honourable senators , I speak , the the people of the west of the Canada .
the producers dairy and the producers of volaille the in terms , in the Canadian and programs . " the the offer .
some may run the government , and the other levels Works the be the the country . the problem , because they have imposed the the area crop . the cuts higher the 1 billion . $ to deal of the Canadian the deficit .
why the government should the the help the farmers to keep their land ?
in the the CIBC the the West , I would tent?e the " that he should the make the the the area crop . the soul of a vast the Canadian our country .
i refer here , the farm agricultural shaped .
this way of life is also thinks to the families of farmers . the French - is to the utmost , the Canadian life in overseas or the failure of the - the the motion to the people of the provinces , the Atlantic and that the mountains and Forestry the are to the Confederation , evoked .
i am tent?e the subject of the value cultural and patrimoniale the the Agriculture .
i know however , the the end of the fact , he not there will be the numbers the compteront to the government - the number of vacancies , the revenues and the statistics on the export .
honourable senators , I hope that some of the one . collection not too , controversy .
a plates costs time 2 million or more .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the senator Spivak :
i ask the leave of pursuing .
the Hon. the Speaker :
leave is the it leave ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Spivak :
the reason , 30 bushels the the acre , the 160 tugboat the the farmer face of what do to 342 $ $ the railways .
the farmers are the - be the the ship the Canadian Tax , but much of people rely on their grain to enable a joli profit or incites a revenue modest .
a place , a is the farmer the barley the lumber the the money on all the Great .
in produisant 50 bushels the the acre and the the selling the Canadian and brasseries to do the Canadian Promenade , the farmer g?n?re the the revenues tax huge to the governments federal and provincial .
finally , honourable senators , I tabled the the correspondence the children of our region for the Canadian people of those of the Senate voice .
he is equipped this disaster , the " no means that the entire the economy crop . the West the Kerner .
i , I , leave of correspondence these letters ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the senator Spivak the " Poverty the the correspondence .
you , you that these letters that due ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Honourable Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , he is the the night a debate capital the the difficulties of the industry crop . the Canada .
the Agriculture is the heart of the economy . my province , the Alberta , and the farmers . the province . the not appreciate the treatment unresponsive the the summer awarded the the first ministers of the Saskatchewan and the the Manitoba when they have the people requests legitimate the the government . the Canada .
this insensibilit? the the government , the fact , as the difficulty that it is the grass the the time when the government , engrangeait a tremendous surplus .
the farmers and their leaders have been disappointed by the lack of leadership of the government , the not the not responded to the satisfaction to the situation monster in the the odd the farmers Canadian .
the the families are in the Canadian losing their strong , and the the targets be close to doors the Alberta and the Saskatchewan , the the the Maple by the the losses the jobs and a great extreme social and economic .
we are witnessing the the agony of the one industry and the the effects devastating the Canadian public . the West .
we , we say , the people of the West that the government , not be no to the it was that he must decide what do with his automotive surplus budget , not lowered the Consolidated .
he is clear that the people of the West the need to a balancing transitional the Canadian the Canadian the government , for the U .
the industry is low untouched because the the CWB the the other countries necessitates the grants to the export and the grants internal .
the government must surely the fact , the difficulties of the Prairies in the development of the strategy for the summit the coming of the Organization World of the trade , the the Permanent the Miami .
however , the situation exists . the not be maintained for the negotiations trade , the biological sessions long , because the - the not be the no response to the industry crop . " bureaucrats .
a balancing federal Supplementary is expected now .
the Honourable Nicholas W . Taylor :
honourable senators , I arrive the the debate with a certain despairs , because the the area of the Agriculture , he is difficult to take exactly the government , the CWB .
we are dealing the the Fur the one free market . the darkest , and we see the seaway crop rock not only as a business , but as a home , a way of life and a community , as the the the previous the .
this is a problem difficult .
he is the the council that he is the " only six years , the organizations agricultural clandestine the Ottawa and the Edmonton , the I admit the the legislative legislation , for the " the government . the simplest the the area of the Agriculture .
i am a member of the committee , the Agriculture and we parcourons the West , in particular , Manitoba and the Saskatchewan , the people . the Interior that the Alberta , my province , and the the problem is probably worse , the
the most , in the the member of the committee , the Agriculture , I have visited the European to try to me relationship with the representatives of the European European .
as the senator Spivak the the indicated , just as the the Europeans not have not really the intent of change .
the authorization in the area of the Agriculture , a revolution the somewhat the .
the government of the the the very be my government , is forced to stretch the assistance to the Consolidated agricultural and the the producers of food in the Canadian the product . the form of the - income .
it is time . course , the Canada , the in the the Canadian , we exportons a if the government . our production Article compared to the other countries that , if we tentions the consumers the price of our products , the the the cheques the Wheat , the apples or the event that is that the other , the rest of the country . the not intended to spending .
the , we have found a solution the , we , namely , will soon agreed . the European sustained .
the the in a lawyer , it . Germany and the Scandinavie the , the the place . " and producers of food in the Canadian and units the production , the the the cheques the one cow , the one pinte the milk or the one bushel of grain , the the investigator a certain form of the - income .
we have tried to do understand the the Europeans the the West that their test default the cost of producers of food in the Canadian the product conduisait the Canadian pollution the their environmental .
the the nitrites contaminaient their nappe phr?atique the case of a too much fertilisation and the one invasion to various types of famine herbes , and that the Canadian , the changes g?n?tiques to increase the production of grain .
the Europeans modifiaient the grain and the rest .
when the Franklin the farmers in the Canadian and records , as the European the the West and the United - United the people , the case . the judge the the Environment .
in judicieusement , the Canada has decided to the assurance - income .
in the , we do we not look the b?b? with the water the the bain .
the assurance - income . effondre in the Prairies .
he not there has not the question that our way of closer the income . operating not very well , Saskatchewan and the the Manitoba .
however , he is interesting the look that is the functions , in Alberta .
it . ennuie the the " , because the I was part of the Opposition and that I have attacked the government to the time , but the members of the government albertain the summer among the first , the Canada , making the idea of the the income .
it has very well fonctionn? .
a number of the accident geological and geography make the this province . the Canadian problems that we , in Saskatchewan and the the Manitoba , but it Undeterred the problem . problem better that the other provinces .
this is particularly because the it has asked the producers agricultural , the amenant the feeling the the assurance - income , not to obtain as the $ the acre or as the $ to the Wheat , the the false the market .
if the " is really the vote of the market free , the means geography the system of the " is that the market free operating , the the the opposite , the course , the existence of a system , incomes whatever .
the this regard , the government ' s , a not in the right direction . instaurant the ACRA and the other programs . the NEP to reward the farmers and the producers of the ?pargn? the the money in preparation of days . difficult .
in Ontario , the allowance billion about 15 per $ by producer and , in the whole of the Canada , it is the " in close p.m. $ $ by producer .
the system or the enhancement the the income require the the farmers . roles of their accounting , differently that the not the exception in the past .
if the government is found the somewhat the , the motion ? - be the the lack of sensitivity the the bureaucrats the fact , in instaurant a system of the - income is that a system of the - bushel .
that the " the critical time , compassionate , is the motion inexcusable .
the problem . " - be the weaknesses by the fact that the government . is shown a little unresponsive in his relations with the farmers in the the concerns of the Canadian the - income , but it is being the things , the point of the Canadian and producers .
they fatalisme and their despair not have not entirely the fact , the government , and their feeling the representations and the " If the government . the not have sell my Wheat the year , and that the potato are dominant this year , then , I do cultive that the the Food , the will the I do the year next ? "
the not move not , and the - be the should the " , the the average of change the system for Polish the the farmers . the prospects of future in the area .
the only way , it is to the one is the make competition to the Europeans the the West and the the Americans , the benefit of subsidies , and the authority then , the government . fill the difference .
they know that the government eyes by the " to cast to the one preferment the first law .
the person , you consumers the Canadian telecommunications . the years of the events agricultural . "
a so , revolution the right in the production Article .
the farmer . know that the event , in the ; the Opposition says that the government . does not the right , and nothing . " everything the word that the Opposition , this or the the other place , the fastest .
honourable senators , I wish to the us that proposed a solution to alternative - that he we be moved a little more than a simple the objective .
he does time that the first idea that the right .
we have our own Committee of the Agriculture .
we could be the be to a continuing to the producers of the area agroalimentaire , and back hope the their extended the objective their activity in their community and the , to prisoners their children , the the place . we talk of their out that he we must support the Competition the the Americans and the the Europeans and that we miss the money .
this is the not a solution .
the bandwagon say that the protection of the income is as a net of security , would sympathized the the not the one funambule .
if we r?ussissons the end of the one of the protection of the income , the by the action . the free business , will the the farmers . find their own solutions the alternative , we will work that is the
i ask urge the the Senate . lead a plan . the meaning , because it is the not the ideas the us around .
the Honourable David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , I wish to the matter thank His Honour the Speaker of the power to debate today , the
this reduction in the op?r?e by a government NDP - advised .
this initiative . , as the Canadian intangibles the deficit of the province .
the the view of the situation exists , the government and the honourable the in the northern to encourage the province , mobilizing the the financements supplementary , since they will agree that the with the NDP - NDP .
Melenchuk and Romanow are partners in politics , they are the the same side of the House , and , in the the concerns of people of the Saskatchewan , they not make the one .
the architect , in the the concerns of farmers , they not make the one .
as the the fact participant the senator Spivak , this election . incit?M. Romanow , the Prime Minister of the Saskatchewan , the directing Ottawa to the information of the assistance for his farmers .
in my good of Conservative , I can the first , the discharge that dinner Hamilton , John Diefenbaker , Don Mazankowski , Bill McKnight , Charlie Mayer and Brian Mulroney biological the time , hear , the understanding of Canadians , the West .
i do I do the " as the the present government , the
when he was our Prime Minister , Mr. Mulroney notes the time , the committee on the situation . the Agriculture in the West ; and the succeeds the in cerner the problems , the the contrary to the previous immediate , the was the vacancy Liberal and the motion , the course , the present Prime Minister .
the my opinion , the the price of the events of basic idle not expect not the Liberal .
the example , when the price of the oil is Signal and that the Canadian of the West the Belgian the in Geneva the benefits , the Liberal . the in the the Program Energy national , a program , chemical the the provinces productrices the oil and the $ the $ the their belonged to the lifetime the first , the Canadian the Canada .
the Canadian , the people have paid the price policy and despite the small sursaut the 1993 , he paieront , a time , price policy .
the answer to the government to this crisis . was the program ACRA .
this is a response Liberal thing .
this is a program of the social .
we do remplissons not the risks .
this is the not , the us ally .
yet , the motion . the the Liberal , expect to the the the farmers their .
in 1996 - 1997 , the income crop net national the left the 55p. per , and the left , the 35p. per the 1997 - 98 .
in Saskatchewan and the the Manitoba , the income crop . negatively .
the government of the the not the political crop national .
the the the the proposed when he is the one problem in the West the are the the solutions supply .
in the coastal very peupl?es the the East , he is the the boards of marketing , a program of subsidies paid directly to the farmer by the consumer .
this is exactly what the event is a board of marketing .
this is a monopoly .
in the West , we are d?brouillons . only .
we know , the the the existence in Europe .
some countries pay to the 8 $ the bushel of wheat .
the governments European the subventionnent , because they not have not the sale the the price .
they not have the not the brader .
the other countries . " no more desirable their programs . grants that we do we remove our boards of marketing .
the reason to this is that , a time that you are habitu?s the the grants and that you grandissez and that you , enrichissez with these grants , he joined politically impossible to the clean .
this is that the so , European .
the Americans the are flags in the battle .
they have decided to the fight against the Europeans and they subventionnent now , Agriculture .
during the time , the poor farmers . the West Canadian , not permitted not the protection of the market , the odd in a Mexican .
this is the not uncommon in the West .
this is the odd nowhere the to the farmers .
when the land of a farmer are fertiles and that he looks of the people from the benefits of the land , to the the railways , the the whisky , the Canadian Promenade or Asian the events to lower prices in the world world and that this is the article not , the situation is critical .
this is that the the existence today , in the Prairies .
the senator Taylor the said that he not had not heard the honourable the the side - the introduction of solutions .
i do know that the well . the us should be , but I know , something : we do we not continue to grow the the events that all the other countries subventionnent .
we know our economy and we know that if the Motor are brad?es the European , the not be not to the Universit the the Motor the North the the North .
however , the motion . the people . in the
they bradent their wheat .
the Canada is a country exporter .
he not there has not enough to people to the country to eat . the the us produisons .
we must the protection for the people know how operating the land .
we do we are leaving the appauvrir and Run their land .
we must put on ethnic a program national the would based only not the the assistance social , but rather on a strategy crop industrial providing that these land should use the other things .
honourable senators , we must also include a period of Tax .
i believe that he would include a period of Tax the ten years , the years of the the farmer magazine a certain amount by acre the land .
he would then considerations the feasibility a crop profitable the the smaller , the Canadian money .
however , he not be not diminish the payment to the acre awarded the one farmer who succeeded .
practices - we should be the selling to the the Senate . the Canadian whose the - the Canadian companies .
this is that the us we do .
we do we not ask the the Europeans the regular the the grants .
forget that the
we know , the the so with the assistance social .
the people becoming the most of the d?pendants and they deny the the in dealing .
this is that the so .
the Americans have decided to act words .
in the the Conservative , I believe that the life rural importance of the importance to a country .
i do wish to the all the Canadian live in the the cities .
the regions rural are a kind of Pedro .
it is the people dying that he is the Canadian to go in the nature or the the tour in a rat the the not there has no .
the the listed in some sort one .
if you are already achievement in the regions rural the Canadian Saskatchewan , the the Alberta , the the Quebec or the the Ontario , you know exactly what the I wish to the
the regions rural are different and they are important .
however , they must also be divested of the point of the economic .
the people of the regions rural are intelligents .
the living and survive in Cairo , he is being intelligent and work hard .
let a little of hope to the farmers .
goodness the " that they are in difficulty and that he is a program of the social .
it is apprehending the way .
these people . " no - the assistance social .
they not in the ever wanted and not in want to more now .
however , I will you say a thing .
if we are flying d?pendants the the assistance social , they not able to the in the .
Mr. . Romanow is time here .
i do think that the summer have the agreement with Roy Romanow , but this time , this , I , it because of the time .
the Prime Minister of the Manitoba the accompagnait , the Canadian and leadership of the Opposition and the the delegations the farmers .
he not the not been well as the
the government . the not awarded a priority . high the people concerns .
we have listened the speech that the Minister of the Finance has made last ; it is the not a single time mentioned the Agriculture , and the , a week after their visit .
oh ! yes , the motion is , but in the speech , the Minister of the Finance , the not . not also important that this .
he said : " " I 90 billion . $ the spending , I vomit the impatience .
the - be will the I would give a small reduction of taxes and we will grant a little the debt . "
honourable senators , the ACRA is wrong put .
we know that is the not operating not ; not justifiably . not the CBC that is the not changed . .
d?barrassons - we , in the text the by some other , operating .
this program was supposed away the the spring .
we are now , fall .
the farmers . the Saskatchewan will very soon . prepare for the spring .
the government has developed . program on ethnic the the spring , the farmers have the their the and they expect , the money .
this is the not as it is the mistreatment the one emergency .
the one time that is debatable will take it , I hope that we can the objective of a form of a place until the the the us r?ussissions the same time defined able to deal to the least some of each of the problems .
we can imagine work more from the country institution , in the important what other institution policy , the Canada because the us are here for long , the health expressions .
we , the the side - the Canadian the Senate , we are the the " must be , and the the the " the present . set not .
we join our colleagues , in the " to examine the the fact , the .
we would prions the authority to your the Minister of visiting the provinces , the Prairies and the other the time , hear , the the farmers and the representatives of the municipalities and the the governments provincial and the " , because the people are the close to the people .
they will concern to their communities .
they will be the be the fence the agreement with us to say that he is the one in the emergency in the west of the Canada and that he is there address .
the Honourable Herbert O . Sparrow :
honourable senators , I wish to first thank and the Yukon . senators , members of the committee , the Agriculture , the Canadian the Government in the people outlined the the respect to the world crop to the years of the year , the and certainly before .
the honourable Spivak , Andreychuk , Gustafson , Hays and Fairbairn . all contributed to the important to do understand the the government and the all the Canadian the crisis . tough the industry crop to the Canada , and the particular , Saskatchewan , the the Manitoba and the Alberta .
let - I , the Yukon , because he not there will be the be not a the other choirs in my remarks .
i do know that too , the the existence when we granted , the debate . emergency .
i know , the the message is taking , but the debate . in reality not least a .
the one dicton , he not be not try to stimulate the the relative , the
this system . set not the the first .
rather , the motion enough .
we have heard about the plans for the said , it and the amendment of surgery .
no . the existence , for the the farmers . acheminent to the Income .
when the problem . surgi , in November of the year , the one of the summer proposed .
the senator Carstairs , the all the parties , are heard and that he is the in cooperation with the organizations agricultural and the governments .
he is the publication , the the consultation .
he did heard that the fund . the program ACRA would paid . earlier in the new year .
it is the motion . happened .
the senator Carstairs , the first , the the coop?r? .
this is correct .
i have attended the Canadian and precision with the representatives of the Department of the Agriculture , the the Minister .
i believe that the program , such as it has been proposed , was very and would be market .
when he has finally , the public , with the risks of the ACRA , he is much clear that the program . marcherait not .
he is the so clear today , the the not the not wanting and that he not marchera not .
when it has seen how the system . fault the the level of the seaway and the boilers the money , it has pointed the support .
the one only organization crop . the West - I do back to the the the existence in the East , not agree the program ACRA .
the governments provincial not have not the their agreed .
the money was the cash to the beginning of the year .
the the hiring the the governments provincial and not . to the
the the said that the Saskatchewan wouldn the sign the agreement , but the province . d?bloqu? the 200 million . $ and the the single , demonstrates as January and February 1998 . She not the positive the agreement for signing the in June .
that was the Department federal ?
why the government , notes - the so , time to send a wide ?
the money . the government . the Saskatchewan , the 200 million . $ , the be paid on a basic the share of the cost .
the the not the motion . , the motion that the money . the government , not . not at the
the time . crucial to the community crop .
the person , I , programs to long term .
this is the not the months , or the , the six months .
tackling - we to the crisis .
either the money in the hands of the farmers .
the talking the fund amounts .
yes , he is the the fund amounts , but it is saving , the the exceptions shaped the bounds the the fund , the previous was developing .
those who is the not to the armed the the problems looking often what will the length of the program .
they want to the the motion of the in a single time or if it stick , in the .
he is possible that it be a necessary .
if we do we provide the necessary , we must the " frankly , the farmers Canadian and the avertir that he not there will the no closure .
that they will gain dignement .
let - and the money and say , and that is the eventual , but let - and the lead to the other activities in the community with dignity , the supplier or qu?ter , the boil the hunger , the feeling the the suicide .
the that the product now .
he is looking the things in the .
we do yourself not for how the time , benefits of Tax will fail .
we do effectively not to the people seniors the the benefits of Tax for a year or two to then the their full .
however , in the case of the environment crop , 2031 extremely important to our society , we are asking the the criteria , the the money the year next .
we , we a industry crop to the Canada ?
he is the Whole .
we are on the point of doing the all these systems on the scene international .
all the areas affected found , they also , the close to the problems .
it is the no doubt .
the the time , that , we do we are in the Canadian joins the our needs food .
this is the aspect crucial the the problem .
if we abandonnons the farmers . the West , if we let the market international impose the rules , he is the agents to say that we should also whose the farmers . the Quebec and those of the Ontario .
then , he not we remain the the " hi the food food .
during the the years , I have travelled the country to speak to the plebiscite of the soil , the Canadian Coast the Canadian firm rock the reason , the diminution and the Canadian destruction of the poorest arable .
i the I have the because the , in the the nation , we must be joins the our needs food .
this is the objective that is the community European .
it underscored to the salaries the the needs .
the Canada says that he can always import the the events , but that the motion . the right .
we must be in the Canadian joins the our needs food .
i wish to the Honourable Senator Carstairs , this .
it has indicated , what the the motion difficult to fulfil the risks of the ACRA .
it was the .
he is the 45 or 47 pages of Energy , 269 how obligations a accompany the seven pages .
the senator Carstairs , the the us have had hire the the students to help the farmers to fulfil their risks .
the Department of the Agriculture , provided the the assistance ; and the officials are gone in the west of the Canada for me how obligations the risks of the ACRA .
why not have the people . This put a accompany the not . not complicated ?
the , they have chosen spending the the thousands of $ to explain what the the main to the the 47 pages .
these risks . the not been applied to March or April and they not have not been diffus?s largely .
the officials of the Department of the Agriculture I have said that I could have the evaluation on Internet .
the are the people have gone visit the Saskatchewan , hailed agricultural , having ?
how we , we then on Internet ?
i do I do have to the evaluation .
finally , the board of the Department of the Agriculture the question lifeblood the positive two risks the May .
the in the fact , the photocopies the people were fishing the country clause .
we discussing now , the the not go not rond in the area crop .
the us that the the farmers inefficient not have not to the .
the Minister said that if someone a not happen . " gain the life in the area , he should the out .
this is that a option , but we farmers . the not enforce .
we are we d?barrass?s the most of the inefficient the , the 20 or 30 years .
i have already said that the I , I still today , the
as the senator Spivak the record , if we continue to us mothballing the most that we brought inefficient , he not until the one only farmer .
we Mister , the the motion to the meagre and we are d?barrasserons the the .
the great Polish the seaway crop will then , the , they will fully filtered , and the farmers will be lost .
in Saskatchewan , if no . doubt , in 20 years , he sees two major cities , as the Saskatoon and the Regina .
he not until the Canadian communities rural .
the the small cities the previous Multicentre and , if no . doubt , he not in False the no .
what kind of province , what kind of the complete this is taking ?
this are there are faced the us we look .
the bandwagon want to the Prime Minister of His the Saskatchewan , see the visu the situation .
he not the not to the make .
all kinds of people of the previous the .
this is that however , sufficient .
the message from some of the .
today , the the Leader of the government to the Senate . the aisles of the the message .
i regret that he not be more , and the not understand the - be not the situation .
he is the one problem , and the the , attacking the pr?conisant the U .
the not committees of the " to fulfil will be said , the will be that the "
in uncertainty , the problem perdure .
the talking the Canadian cooperation the the provinces .
the money that the provinces have agreed to contribute to the farmers . , the the need to the materials .
the Minister of the Agriculture not allowed not the " that he is the many of money in the CSRN .
this is a program which occurs as the government , the the farmers .
the the data the the months of August , the are the past , we doubled the the CSRN , regarding $ farmers on 58 $ framework of the Canadian 2 8,700 $ in the fact .
it is being not the Minister of the the the , the many of money in the CSRN .
the most of the " the ship the Canadian crumbling , he not there is the money .
he not there has nothing to them .
the the 20 October , valley 800 farmers were from a payment in the part of the program ACRA .
however , they not have not those of the us Hadood .
we are Ahmadi des30 $ farmers who will ruin?s .
i used . figure for a year now .
or , we goes completely the 30 per farmers , or , we goes the young farmers who should take the provincial and the most old .
i urge the Leader of the government to the Senate to bring this send the the government .
the program that the organizations agricultural formerly not . not the the the summer the in the .
this is why they not the redistribution not .
the us that the few ajustements , will affect .
he is easy to amend the program .
we could ask simply that he be eliminated and replaced by a new .
this would be , except that he would be more a year .
i do I do that the
modifions the program , the and versons the money to the farmers .
he is the one billion . $ .
versons - the " and producers .
we are inqui?terons , it . find the the fund amounts to the in the .
tainted the farmers to the actions with the the difficulties .
the Honourable Ron Ghitter :
honourable senators , the Canadian first , I wish to thank His Honour the Speaker of the fishing the meeting of our debate .
this is a debate is the
i commend all those who have made the honourable to the date .
the learned nothing to the life in a youth crop , I have a learned that the - afternoon .
the intervention of the senator Sparrow the summer good .
he and the other , the said , the the things that I want to the
i rise to speak to the Canadian citadin , but the Albertan , therefore , some of the the the debate is a partisan a little different .
as the the said , Senator Andreychuk , he is that the the the motion . the the Ontario . is not necessarily . the the Alberta or the Saskatchewan . - ascended economic and demographics are different .
the effect are different .
the failure of the market . is not the same not more in the provinces .
the result , the government . the numbers heard today , the " no , not say that is the motion . the the Canada will necessarily vibrer a cold sensitive the Saskatchewan or the the Manitoba , the people . the not the resources , the people , the strength economic or the power to the Alberta , he is a the coming to help to the farmers .
the person to say , the close to the the " means to the numbers .
i do I do the intent of the free in the the squabbling the numbers .
we have all the the numbers .
if we want to implement testing , he is the first question to some questions fundamental .
the the world . respond : " Welfare sure that there another to
however , he is the Canadian and regions , the Canada , in particular , Alberta , the feeling indicate that the time , the hard rock coming to his late .
he is easy to romancer the hard rock .
he is easy to speak to the point of the Canadian the community .
the honourable Tkachuk , Spivak and Sparrow the subject of the importance of the hard rock to our communities .
they have heard the the feeling that it sounds the the people .
they have heard the the feeling of failure and the Small the Canadian community that the not the not in town .
they have heard the the contribution to a the Canadian firm rock the the grounds and the Canadian Industrial the country , the
the senator Spivak , the the Canadian firm rock was the the Alberta and the the Prairies . the Canadian language the portion to the Quebec , the the the forestry future for the British - British and the the the fishery future for the Canadian of the Atlantic .
the comparaisons are all the fact forward .
it will the " the heart of the existence and the Canadian perp?tuation the first , the us any , the us who takes the the Prairies .
when someone a request , the hard rock the more , the " " era of the marketing , the the great Polish and the Canadian ports , I heart yes .
the hard rock the more a place . important .
it is part integral the the fabric social the country , the
it is the important that we do we not the lurch destroyed and losing , some other . the deep enracin? in our society .
if we recognize the importance of the Canadian survival of the communities rural the country , the little any . the Canadian firm rock the portion to various the , it has need to a thing .
as the business , the the Senate in the area of the fishery or in the area p?trolier and export , he is a thing for survive in the .
all the people of business . say that this is , the motion of stability .
if a business . the not the stability , the predictability or a sense of the planning the the giving a view of the the the flow the year next , it will always , having .
it will always in the uncertainty and not in wishing have the kind to the the assistance to the bank .
the stability , the ages , in the Canadian mendier .
i believe that , since the the years , I am in politics , the farmers . the ever b?n?fici? the no stability .
as the the said , Senator Taylor , he is the in the Alberta , the program , the fonctionn? .
he is the in a basic assured and a net of security threats the farmers have been struggling to cope the bad time and all the other things with which they must operators .
however , they not have been in the stability , and would allow the planned and the intention to us bring the events who are so important and valuable to us .
the the stakeholders the subject today , the revisiter the question constitutional .
the Leader of the government to the Senate . " that the provinces must be some other .
we have heard that so often .
the us that the the motion of wrongdoing .
i could r?citer the the honourable a list that the the House provincial and the Manitoba have called the people have the people representations to the committee Standing the the Agriculture and the the agroalimentaire the Canadian House of the House .
he is a the two pages of programs the the government , the motion withdrawn and the cuts made to the the program dealing the Agriculture , and I hear , today , the the provinces gain the the fund .
the poor little province of the Saskatchewan withdraw the the money . the assistance to the farmers .
the government . the Saskatchewan . the not the average of providing the the assistance to the farmers , then the government , the the Canadian Saskatchewan . meant help 40 per - the program of the and that as it is the the not the , the government , not the not to do what the the Senate .
this is the Canadian d?robade .
this is unacceptable .
he is unacceptable that the leaders political , provincial or federal , " that this is the not to the .
this is the responsibility of the the world .
while the us garbage a few of $ here and that , the life crop in the country will the the amenuisant and the crisis continue .
the most of the Canadian hailed are saisies , the most of the Canadian hailed disappear and the most of the Canadian youths the in hand .
all the things that we have heard today , are hands and ingenuity .
they will produce in our country .
the people speak vaguement the the problem , they not to the press not really .
they not want to the free in a war the the numbers .
it is dreaming not .
we have the Canadian a government , although - the committee , the farmers and their feet a plan to long term for their to the stability for the the working with the provinces .
honourable senators , the not . not new .
it is egregious not the last .
in the years 70 , I was part of the government albertain and the was the same kind of discussions , the same sense .
the way general , the Middle to responsibly the government , or such person .
the in the intervalle , he is the Canadian , in the Canadian farmers .
the problems have been exacerb?s , and we take quagmire in a crisis .
i believe that we are dealing in a situation . serious the the Canada rural , particularly in the Prairies .
he not enough , the the Prime Minister refer to first ministers , they are the " : " Nobody you inqui?tez not , a place Committee fixera the numbers . "
he is the - be too late .
he would the emergency line of the government ponctuelles , the time that the the plans to long term transfer of the .
unfortunately , no . is the in the meaning .
the the veterinary the passing and the the book the one Inuit the numbers .
human not just to the the solutions to ensure the stability of this industry .
if the motion . the the need to the will the the prior with this .
yesterday , Mr. Martin not the same not viewed the situation crop when he spoke of the Estimates financial and the the the the monopoly the make with the virtues - " dividends .
that the motion ? the in their the ?
why not talking - we not the Agriculture ?
why rejetons - we have the responsibility on a one of the and not do - we do to correct the situation ?
honourable senators , he is time , adverse a climate of stability .
the farmers the flag .
if we believe that the the importance of the community rural , we must then be some other for the coming to help .
he is time , banned the subject .
he is time , at the make the Canadian leadership .
he is time , provide a certain stability to the farmers . the Canada .
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , thank the Canadian Chair of the agreement that he is a that the one of the pr?tant the one debate . emergency and I thank my friend the senator Gustafson the have seen the the the the Senate on the
this is the not a debate on the subject of the statistics .
this is a debate on the difficulties concerning the opposite today , the particular , the families and the children and to the the prospects of future .
he is the the prospects of future of the plans of the stability in the area crop and the the opportunities the the market global .
i have listened all the speakers .
all the luck with the or less of the the problem and the factors the us Subcommittee here this afternoon , afternoon to speak to the farmers .
i have the particular listened with openness the intervention of the senator Gustafson .
this is far the be the first time that I still the senator Gustafson .
i have the privilege of sitting , the committee on the the Agriculture , the the logic with great the accuracy and the heart .
the most of the honourable the not understand that the functioning Economy , the Senate , the motion of the the Canadian and people partageant the the point of the political groupings can the respect and the make the the friends that they garderont long .
these people can also shared and others indeed , nowhere concerns the Canadian and problems , genealogists the life and the well - be the the citizens , what the Senate . place where they live in the country .
this is a question . a the the point strong the least , namely , the Senate . the Canada .
honourable senators , no Canadian of the west of the Canada , particularly those of the major areas agricultural the this area , not be ignored the pain and the ins?curit? ACHR by the people of the communities and the the families agricultural and the the small cities rural and the all those who trying to lead the the business in the bombing by the durs , the need intended to extreme the temp?rature , the floods , the drought , the disease and the pressure the the trade internationally the returns the drop of the price of the best products of the world to the the licensing massive the grants in the other countries .
the committee , the Agriculture , hear , the evidence and the the aerials the horror of all the areas of this industry , the the newspaper the Canadian soil the one of the the intent of the government on the messages that the Canada should refer to the next bargaining the the trade internationally the the concerns the Miami .
our report , entitled : " - down the " :
the priorities to the Agriculture Canadian and the NRTEE the the millennium the , referme the important recommendations in the Canadian and next bargaining the need be undertaken , later , the years of the months .
but the most important . the the the summer , the individual the one we , hear about the the difficulties and the the potential of the area , when we were on the ground , in the West Canadian , the only not in the emergency the meeting of the committee here , the Ottawa , but in our own communities , in our own provinces .
we have listened the people .
we have laughed , in the most of those who hit the serious difficulties in the Canadian circumstances that they not conglomerates no not .
the the years of the months onslaught , I have visited all the provinces , the West .
i am I entretenue with a great many of operating agricultural - time , along the chamber , sometimes only , including the the south - western the the Alberta , I am outcome .
a thing is some , and the motion that the Saskatchewan , he has length was the Canadian and damage occur by the foot the the land agricultural the the south - is the Canadian province , and the the south - western the the Manitoba , the
i have heard the Canadian and producers the the , are calling the two , for ensemencer their land , for the Canadian rain ruiner their efforts .
these people have the very serious difficulties financial .
the product will inexistante , and the jobs are introuvables .
some senators , Le in the comfort douillet the this chamber . the inoculation not the the the fact , p a land , the same - the rarity or not , namely , farmers . the right to collect the subpoena the the well - be instituted ; the people . What how they will be to adequately the the needs of their family .
the the honourable the all the federally the Solicitor the week , the members of delegations the Canadian Saskatchewan and the the Manitoba , minority the Ottawa directing the the financements transitoires to help the farmers to westward the next years , the end prompted the motion to expect that , the Canadian and negotiations trade , the Hon. the Canadian the pr?vaudra , the same that the right will and the openness .
they are the said , what the the Program of the in the Canadian origin related to the income crop . investigate not the results Province by the government , and the the partners . the governments provincial .
i wish identify some of the people who are decade , the week , the
they not represent the one of the Canadian delegation .
we have heard Leon Lueke , the the Association of the producers of porc the Canadian Saskatchewan ; LaChance Wagner , the the Pro - West Rally Group ; Noreen Johns , a woman passionn?e and deep concern , the the Saskatchewan Women' s Agricultural Network ; Don Dewar , the the Keystone Agricultural Canola ; Goerge Groeneveld , the Agricore ; Convervatives Motherall , the the Association of the municipalities the the Manitoba , the rest usually the the gap the the kind of issues , but as the small cities hit the the difficulties , the great cities come to the pecuniary .
we have heard the Clay Serby , Minister of the Foreign municipal , the Canadian Culture and the the Tourism the Canadian Saskatchewan ; the Duane Lingenfelter , Chairman of the Minister and Minister of the Agriculture ; and the L Donna Harpauer , MP the the Saskatchewan Party .
the the Manitoba , we have heard the the Opposition the the Liberal Party , Jon Gerrard , the motion of old friend since the time when he intended as member of the House of the House .
he is clear that we , the need to the the name of this area , the not we not to the focus only on the war the numbers the people . the subject of discussions , the are obligated the week , the
we do we not we allow distract the the the motion is important , the motion ? " - that the end of inclusion to help the farmers in difficulty .
honourable senators , I believe that we will be raised , and that we , we very soon , the the us will the Constitution the program , into the Canadian d?bloquer the the fund , the meeting the Canadian the point of the Canadian and producers the people , the the amount of 900 per $ was known , but that he not occur not enough soon and that he not the not assigned the Canadian the Canadian , to the
we must act to this , honourable senators , and I am sure that we will the make .
i think that the the ajustements , the the changes and the the commitments will take the the the program sanctions .
the the motion . " today , if someone a the concern to the problem .
we must be to the the country . become unresponsive the Hon. the and the Hon. this , the point of ignore this , the existence , not in the worlds the view , not to the television all the dismay , not in the great centres urban , but in some of the most significant rivers the country , the us not ?changerions to do the the world .
is why we do we have extreme our farmers .
yes , we are sentons is underway .
in the world . today , the us know that the Agriculture is a the the export the most fragiles and that he is the emergency .
i the I said , the Minister of the Agriculture will make the the changes . quickly because , honourable senators , we do we not the disparaisse the way of life , the summer described today , the
we want to preserve .
we want multiplying the potential for the farmers , not to the multinational .
we want strengthen the links between the communities rural , they are the soul of our regions and the country , the
i just the one east small city the the Order teethed .
i the issue . , but I like to the small cities the are Diaspora in the coastal rural the the cause and the it potentially his beloved - the the cities as Coaldale , Picture Butte , Stirling , Taber , Warner , Raymond , Magrath , Cardston , Stand Off , in the contingency the the Gens - Prince Edward Sang , and Amherstburg MacLeod , the so , that everything the history of the RCMP , and the the mountains , over the significance of the cols , Pincher Creek , and Brocket in the contingency the the Short .
this are the Diaspora the Canadian Oath crop the this land , I am outcome and the question . - far and I , the father was pioneers .
he worth the only to the sole time to think the the the was the Canada . - there , the beginning of the century .
he not there was not the buildings or the targets .
he is the Canadian and convictions and the the people boldest came by smaller groups of all the examples of the world .
the family , my mother is soul of the crat?re the poussi?re the the Lakeside , looking at the Hon. help , and the motion Anzac , Senator Gustafson , in the Sydney Battleford , in Saskatchewan , the question mother is her .
this is the basis of our country .
today , the Senate . century , later , we can bring , through the Canadian Technology and the the technology , but , the the TAGS , despite the solitude , the people of these small cities held up to see their daughters , the their to the " and instructive .
this is the the risk and asymmetry that the epitome the the the potential to the public . the legislative legislation , the the the Senate to the Canada .
in the oubliant , the risk of resale the unity of our country .
the people held in the related .
the important to violate that enables the technology , it is assigned no , direct of the people .
as I , I said , the beginning , honourable senators , the debate . the night the truly the the people .
despite the scepticisme the some of my fellow - to the opposite and the my colleagues , I believe firmly that the people must be the first consideration and the priority of the government and the the Prime Minister .
the government and the Prime Minister enact .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , before the us not attractive the Honourable Senator Gustafson , I wish to the the Rules not the way of the the the existence the 18 at the the part of a debate . emergency .
what the the in the , I have felt that the s?nat someone that I do I turn not the the clock and I do I , not interrompu the Honourable Senator Fairbairn .
i suppose that you souhaitez that I do I turn not the the time ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , I am short .
i wish to the first thank His Honour the have the Canadian Conference of the debate .
i think that is the one ' admirable .
i wish to thank the honourable the the two sides .
this is a day , I am proud of the Senate , I think that we start to work of the the should be done in this chamber .
as the the stakeholders the the two sides of the indicated , our community crop . Spring the one very serious problem .
he is the in the the huge , but the members of the committee , the Agriculture know , and I further , that , the the government . was not awarded the blame in the introduction of the program ACRA .
all aspects , the motion to the Federation of the Agriculture that the right , in the , the program .
the the the single , the Act , at the make the " the problem in the area of the porc .
the hog the vendaient the Torquay , in Saskatchewan , 10 $ Room .
however , it is the not fonctionn? to the rest of the Canada and the the c?r?aliers .
this program . the absolute not fonctionn? and the then be changed .
honourable senators , the Saskatchewan . the not the assiette tax adapt to share of billing in a per - 40 - 60 .
i will be ensured .
the Alberta , the money need and the respect to test .
it is pleased to the make and the cost more .
the farmers 130 upsetting the , but that so that the in Saskatchewan ?
the most , he has been a the Canadian neglect of the government provincial .
he the the summer .
he has balanced the budget , the background of the farmers .
he has used our payments to the CHST the the program RARB .
the Alberta , affected 58 $ $ by farmer to the years of the last year , the cash to the CHST the the RARB the summer paid , the Manitoba 43 per $ and the question of the I have received a generation of 320 $ to my and agricultural .
anyone , the that the will not the consequences . wrong .
we talking now , India along by the past , and we do we not the lurch the subsequent .
the Agriculture is a industry important to the Canada .
my great - Polish the motion established in Saskatchewan , 1905 .
they not have the just not the money for the cost .
we must take some decisions and , as the the said , Senator Sparrow , they must be taken quickly , because the Canadian the Canadian ensemencement happen soon .
when the the myth with the the farmers and the the groups agricultural , the " - they ?
they perform the the people should be now .
the question is the knowledge how the farmers will ensemencer .
the situation is very d?moralisante .
it pays the only the fuel necessary to exp?dier the product .
this scene the said , the broadens .
the potato the some farmers are gel?es .
they arise 88 cents for the the Wheat gel? .
the the farmers receive 2,05 $ to a bushel of wheat hard , then , their counterparts American are participating the in the 5,50 $ the bushel .
how will the people survive ?
the , they not the agreements . .
a the the great problems , exist in the the world , the motion that the country , the need to the food food not have not the money .
the one time , the Canada was the the steamship driving the Wheat the quittaient Vancouver to the matter . Russia , then , they not had the ever been lips .
they were simply Constitution . - there , and the Russes achetaient the Wheat .
today , the Canadian Federation not the most of positive .
it is the not the money for smokers the the Wheat .
the Minister of the Agriculture the Canadian Federation the messages the the committee on the us the the said outright .
i could appoint the other countries in the same in the
the problem is global .
i hope that the will the Canadian , common to the meetings to Miami , the d?buteront the 29 November and the form the " the 4 December , for trying to deal . problem global .
the most important , the motion that the government and the Parliament of the Canada . roles of the problem global . important .
we know , the the country , not have not the average of smokers the Canadian food , but who would be the eat the people disposaient the the foods .
he is a the one problem with the
he is very sad that , with the resources and the machinerie to the devastating as never before the us not afraid not enough to a sense policy for off a world who has hunger .
human not happen to understand that the
a number of the honourable the arts the the numbers .
take the example , flax .
i am teetotaliste , but I will be the the protracted the magazines the the whisky the basis of canola : 79 cents the bushel .
he is the so , barley , the Wheat , and Fundamental .
is the the important to the Canada ?
if the motion , the I .
i commend the honourable senators , today , the
each of the the one part of dabbling .
we must build a better Canada , and we will the make .
the complete , honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 4 November 99 , I move :
that the Senate recommend to the government . the Canada . to act 1.3 billion . $ the the farmers . the West , as the people from the first ministers of this area .
this , should take the the farmers , the University of the board Canadian of the Wheat , the form of a payment to the acre .
the Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Gustafson , I have the latter the honourable tell the I do I do agree a notice of Motion to the time , this , except the the , the consent unanimous .
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin :
the we , we not suspended the Chair ?
he is a the one debate Special the not permit the introduction of any motion .
the Hon. the Speaker :
i do I agree a notice of Motion to the the senator Gustafson the the consent unanimous .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
we have asked the leave .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I believe that he is the Canadian and humanitarian the flag reflection .
the Canadian first , the motion of the senator Gustafson would give notice that the the Estimates , and I am asking if it is valid .
the senator Gustafson :
this is a recommendation .
the senator Hays :
the most , I believe that the the debate . emergency the Adieu the one would the adjournment and that , when the Honourable Senator Gustafson reconvenes his place , the debate be adjourned .
i am concrete by virtue the Canadian determining the one of the motion for a debate . emergency .
the senator Kinsella :
refusez - you , leave ?
the senator Hays :
indeed .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the opinion of Motion to the not accept .
honourable senators , he is proposed by the Honourable Senator Gustafson , with the support of the senator Cohen , the the Senate . adjourned .
the the words of the rule 61 ( 3 ) , " the the Rules , the motion is agreed to board .
i leaving the the Chair to the frustration to 14 at tomorrow .
( the Senate . adjourned . p.m. at tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 6
the Thursday 4 November 99
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the dumping
Maxwell Tabled '
the Late Elias AntHony Gustave Vincent
tribute
the World War World
the proportion - fifth anniversary of the battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence
the Court Supreme
the appointment of the Honourable Beverley McLachlin the the position of Justice in the
the Order of the Souvenir
the Late the Greg Moore
tribute
the Jour the the Souvenir
the Second World War
the proportion - fifth anniversary of the battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence
the Court Supreme
the appointment of the Honourable Beverley McLachlin the the position of Justice in the
the closure possible , the government 500,000
business routine
the adjournment
the Act , the Defence down - Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques - Code offence
bill to the Second - First Reading
the Code offence
bill to the Second - First Reading
the Association Parliamentary Canadian of the NATO
the situation . the aboriginal and their future
notice of inquiry
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Defence down
the replacement of the helicopters Sea King
the possibility of transfer of investigations on the accident the the Transportation of the safety of the Transportation
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the possibility of a fund . Tax to the farmers who wish change the profession
the request of a program of peace - and producers the people land
the Program of the in the Canadian origin related to the income crop - Conformity allowance the fund additional - Request for confusion the Canadian statement of the Minister
the request of the financial the vote of the d?shydrateurs the luzerne
the fishery and the Oceans
the provinces marine - Government to the Canadian Court Supreme confirmant the rights of Fisheries aboriginal - Effect effects on the economy local
the possibility of a further , resulting to the fishermen recommendation change the profession
on business orders
the Senate . the Senate
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
second reading of Second the the debate
the Act , the border judicial
bill to the Second - Second Reading - Adjourned the the debate
the Committee of Selection
the Canadian the fourth report
the Canadian distinguished and their role in the U - Parliamentary
inquiry - Adjourned the the debate
business foreign
leave to the committee , clerical the the services
the Senate
the Thursday 4 November 99
the Chair . Chair . p.m. at the the Speaker , the the Chair .
prayers .
the Late Elias Anthony Gustave Vincent
tribute
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I do I learned that yesterday , deaths of the former ambassador Anthony Vincent .
i know that many senators , the people him .
Mr. . Vincent is unborn the honorary .
he has concluded his studies the the United - United and the motion came in the the the bravery , the Department of the Foreign External , in the the diplomat .
he has done a career remarkable the the the leading in the world world , the past affectations , the the Spain and Andorre , the the vice our ambassador .
he has also been our senior - Commissioner the the Bangladesh and our ambassador , Burma .
he has gained in the inevitable Canadian , The Hague and the York Delhi .
but it is the the time when he has been our ambassador to the Peru that he is much a heroes .
in 1996 , Mr. Vincent the role of the majeur the Canadian the decision of Labour the Canadian residence the the Ambassador of the Japan , Lima .
we believe that the actions have the Canadian save many lives .
he has received the Gabrielle the the service award the Canadian Gouverneure general to his contribution extraordinary the Canadian resolution of this crisis .
he was a heroes bienveillant and modest and a Nobel esteemed of the Canada .
he has appeared the the role is that the Canada can play in the movie the one , the standing and better .
honourable senators , I wish I join the the very hon. the Minister and the the Minister of the Foreign Affairs , to our sympathy to the family Mr. Vincent , including the Hon. wife Lucie and the the daughter Alexandra .
the World War World
the proportion - fifth anniversary of the battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I wish to the matter tribute to all the Canadian , who , live , and those who we have barely , the people served our country , the flag .
i wish to send a murmur . Special the the Canadian , used now , the foreign in the part of keeping the peace - the peace .
this afternoon , afternoon , I wish to speak specifically the Canadian battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence , this size of water the offer the very beautiful panoramas the the Quebec , the the New - New , in the Island , Prince Edward Island , Prince , in Nova Scotia Nova , the Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the the Labrador .
this is a way navigable the the trade , the Canada , the time at the and the many Canadians can think that this has always been the case , but the 1942 , the are the subamendment , maintenance of the Germany Nazi the , r?gnaient the courts .
this morning , the the auspices of our bienveillant Speaker , we have attended the one memorial in this chamber to homage the battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence the 1942 the Richelieu .
the the wrath , the course , only two ships were the perdus , 1942 , the two , 1944 , and the the is therefore , the proportion - fifth anniversary , but to the most of the us who are the - be better the history Pubnico , the battle of the Gulf . is d?roul?e , in the , in 1942 .
honourable senators , the ceremony the the morning , chaired by His Excellency the Gouverneure general , the Canada , was warm and appropriate and we had been we a great many of submarine the Canadian Shipping Shipping Canadian , the dry in the Mackenzie to defend our country .
the subamendment , maintenance German the thought that the inadequate the traversaient the Atlantic were the well protected in 1942 , the Canadian , the the coming to war the the Americans and they have the announcement of the deal to the roadblocks navigables coastal the the North the the North to find the the larger than easy during the the the vessels the the subamendment , maintenance German appelaient the Canadian season of Whaling American the or the Canadian nice time to the
honourable senators , the subamendment , maintenance German the coul? the six months the long - the West of the North the the North the the ships as 2.5 million . tonnes of goods .
the seven first month of 1942 the almost cost of War , the Alli?s .
the said that the subamendment , maintenance German had so , choosing the the targets that they not rentraient the the Port that because the people . the most of torpilles .
while the Canadian battle of the Atlantic was termed the high seas , the subamendment , maintenance German the successful the the Great in the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence , often in the Canadian and MLAs , the Canadian research , ships old , escorte .
in May 1942 , the battle of the Gulf shaking .
the U - boot German U - 553 was tracked the the broad the the Cape Ray , the the accomplissait his first surveillance .
the the years of the five months , followed , 21 ships were perhaps coul?s and I 200 submarines killed .
in 1944 , both ships of War , coul?s and that chapter the driving .
the Prime , the vice the ship to rush Nicoya - the Prime homes coul? in the Mackenzie domestic the the Canada , the I add , the the forces hostile been the war the 1812 .
unfortunately , the not be not be the last .
the HMCS Racoon , a b?timent arm? , was coul? by the U - boot U - 165 the 6 September 1942 , and the corvette HMCS Charlottetown by the U - boot U - 517 only five days . later .
the 14 October , the was the tragedy to the ferry Caribou , the Spanish the conjunction of the part continentale the the Canada and Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
the Hon. the Speaker :
senator Forrestall , I regret to interrupt you interrupt , but the period of three minutes that you substantially to do you owe the allotted .
the senator Forrestall :
i am sure that the honourable senators understand that is the Canadian and Canadians are we add tribute today , the
the Court Supreme
the appointment of the Honourable Beverley McLachlin the the position of Justice in the
the Honourable Joan Fraser :
honourable senators , I wish to some comments to the subject of the announcement the last , which the next Justice in the Canadian the Court Supreme the the Canada will her the Krever Beverley McLaghlin .
i think that all the Canadian . the initiative of this new and I believe that the women were particularly remplies the Archdiocese - the " no . not too strong - to the announcement of the appointment .
this is the first woman to deal of the Canadian Justice in the Canadian our Court Supreme .
this , we pleased , the the motion that it is the not been appointed to the position because the the was a woman , but the reason , the awards .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the senator Fraser :
this is a belief quintessencielle .
the - that the most Canadian that some of the motion unborn the Pincher Creek , in Alberta ?
it has been admise the the Bar albertain the 1969 and it has made to the close . the the the motion that the make the the system legal Canadian .
it has outlined the right in a practice private the 1969 , 1975 .
it has taught the right to the University of the British - British the 1974 the 1981 , then , in 1981 , it has occurred in the lower the Canadian deployment the Canadian Bar , the Canadian court of coincidental the Vancouver .
it is the not busting very long , there , the international .
he is the ten years , in 1989 , it has been appointed to the Court Supreme the the Canada Mr. Mulroney , then prime minister , the one of the best decisions that he has taken , medical - I say .
her the Krever McLachlin the motion disinfection difficult to cataloguer , the the motion of the odd .
he not the not been possible , the " and productivity strongly reports on the issues infuriate , the Canadian lead as owned the one school judicial or the one another has the announcement the last .
the the world . This have the the it was a judge out fine , launched the one of achievement and independent , the not to the course , no - and ports statute .
the one of the comments of the interesting the " that made on the motion , the the chairman of the Association of the Bar Canadian , the the said : " contemporaries subject . will the Canadian to the things , the d?composer the problems in small problems and the the end to the deal . "
the the I do what is lawyer , I have had to the difficulty of years , read the the Competition the jurisprudence and I must say that , in the the former broadcaster , I am extasie also the wide that we have a judge , Chief of going to the Prairie the drafting of the judges of a way than and coherently .
he is important to the citizens of our country . the understanding that the their words , acting Supreme and , when she the Krever McLachlin wrote , he not the no doubt that the prairies . the it is the basis .
it has also said recently the the Bar Canadian , and I quote :
the Parliament , with his best tools the newly the the facts , with a better access to the opinions , the the information , is the place . the appropriate for the decision of making the nature policy , the above a noble the .
this is very important , I , I am .
the Order of the Souvenir
the Honourable Norman K . Atkins :
honourable senators , as you the you , the the renovations will be the clearing November next , the honour to our former Veterans and other personnel military .
we hope that the Canada and the world world comparable the one peace and the one freedom provisions the the years of the century , making .
i wish to the matter tribute to all these Canadians who have the Canadian one sacrificed the the name of the freedom .
i have I - the some links with the First World War .
my father , the part of the body exp?ditionnaire Canadian , the 46e Somalia the Canadian Batterie the Canadian Queen , the the way of the Canadian egregious battle of the plateau the Vimy , the the in Journ 9 April 1917 .
the most , the the University Acadia the I have examined , he is the one residence the the Universit , the house Willett , the the amorphous a salon the one was open the Milton Gregg Lounge , in the honour to the one of the little Canadian and the facility and the most basic .
Milton Gregg was the one of the 19 Canadians to the be seen spirituality the Red the Victoria , the the the retirement , Cambrai , in France , the the years of the week , the 28 September , the 1 October 1918 .
he is sad the feeling that the independents the the former Veterans the Canadian War II. World , the Canadian War II. World and the Canadian War , Korea . ?claircissent , the little .
the following the numbers standard of March the by the Department of the Subcommittee Veterans , he remains only 669 former Veterans the Canadian War II. World , 390 230 the Canadian War II. World and review 783 the Canadian War , Korea .
he we do the honour to Canadians , so that their pain and their Longboat remain , in the memory of the Canadian .
i wish to a moment of the men and the the women of the Canadian Forces who serve vaillamment their country , today , the the Senate , the the Canada or in Bosnia the peace - the peace , the foreign .
too often , we forget the sting our appreciation and our appreciation to our vaillants military in service active .
they have m?rit? again and again , our respect and we must find the the ways of their proposition that we are soucions the one .
honourable senators , the all these Canadians who are still surviving and the most of the d?c?d?s , we greatly our linear gratitude and we perpetuate their remember .
the Honourable Calvin Woodrow Ruck :
honourable senators , I rise I also the honourable the the opportunity to the Order of the Souvenir .
i ask supplied the in observant the Jour the the Souvenir , you , rappeliez that we , the minority the the Canada , we are also served our country and that we are loans to the use the " . the the ways to the future .
we are loans to do with the entire constituted to the preserve the principles democratic that wonderful our country .
the Late the Greg Moore
tribute
the Honourable Gerry St. :
honourable senators , I rise today , the honourable to the honour to a great Canadian the us d?plorons the disastrous , Greg Moore .
i have had the honour to represent the constituency of affaires - Port Moody , the country . Terry Fox , a the our great heroes Canadian , and the region . Maple Ridge , the country . It great athletes - by the Cam Neely , a great player the hockey , Larry lifer and Greg Moore .
the 31 October , a affreux accident the motion a the one stretch the undefeated the Motor the California .
Greg the d?marr? his career of coureur automobile the Hon. father , the was concessionnaire the worst Chrysler , the Maple Ridge , the the response to Lougheed .
it is the in a coincidental that I have already represented .
the the time when I was MP and Minister of the cabinet in the other place , I passais often on this road , I arrived not the not far .
i have seen . barking , in his young years , shepherding the the karts in the corner .
i knew , the father and the other members of the family .
Greg the known the notori?t? very young , that the the side of great Pilots as the Villeneuve , Fittipaldi , Andretti and Paul Tracy .
he has failed to impose .
we were numerous the look in the one heroes .
many of young Canadians , unrealistic as such .
he was not only sympathetic and admit , but it was also has lost to participate in the program of Canada . the safety safety in the schools and other initiatives provisions the Canadian conduct and the the profession .
i know that all the people here revitalizing both the guys the I , provide the the family and the all its friends our sympathy the most sincere to the loss of this distinguished Canadian .
the Jour the the Souvenir
the Honourable Rompkey Rompkey :
as the senator Forrestall and the other the people reported , he is the in the morning , in this chamber , a ceremony moving to the navy Shipping .
i would appreciate that a more a number of my colleagues will be singing .
the people were the chamber , they have left the site the most driving the water , I , I am .
i wish thank the Speaker of the fishing that the ceremony the liberties in this chamber and the the participation in the comm?moration .
i hope that we can celebrate each year . ceremony in Paris the Canadian Shipping Shipping .
if you substantially the campaign to Newfoundland - Newfoundland , and the in the regions rural the this province , as I , I have the honourable seen seen on various walls a or a the the galleries following :
Smallwood Smallwood , the Pope , the Queen , John Fitzgerald and a claimant the the Caribou .
he has sombr? during the Second World War .
many of people . I knew are predicting the the homes .
he is much a symbol fiftieth of the navy Shipping and a symbol of those who have been mobilis?s and the most of the backbone 4,000 to their share to help to the effort to war , the people . The not the wear .
the Canadian the ceremony the the morning , the the celebrated the people and the the acknowledged their contribution to the effort to war .
honourable senators , I hope that we do manquerons not the opportunity to participate , the clearing November , the the renovations the the d?rouleront in our regions to homage those who is the Montfort and the people , and their to do the the country . the the motion today , the
the Second World War
the proportion - fifth anniversary of the battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence
the Honourable Mabel DeWare :
honourable senators , as the Honourable Senator from the the highlight , we were all invited by the Speaker in attend in this room is morning , the clearing at the " the ceremony Commissionaires the 55e anniversary of the battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence .
the honourable to a view of the importance and the the impact of this battle historic , I wish you do the Canadian and the Canadian the Honourable George Baker , the the way of the Canadian ceremony .
he has said :
this year , we comm?morons a revolt , known of the World War World the the motion defenders here , the the Canada .
this is the history incredible the the men and the the women who have defended our refugees , our coastal and our horses in the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence , and 1942 and 1944 .
a great many of the one , there was the the members of the Marine Royal Canadian , the the Aviation Royal the the Canada , the Canadian Shipping Shipping the the Canada and the Newfoundland - Newfoundland , the the services allies and the Canadian Nursing Sisters Association of Canada . the left them their .
improving the five years , later , the motion with pride and gratitude that we saluons these advocates and their docu died the the struggle .
these Canadians and Canadians have fought vaillamment to the peace and the freedom .
they are predicting the virtue their homes and their mother , a meaningful direct .
the the civil innocent the 1800 with them .
the case of the circumstances of the war , a great many of the one . the same not the scenario to the honour .
Mr. . Baker we , as reminded that the following :
we have the duty , only to us remember the the people , but also the suggestion their history , the generations future .
honourable senators , we have indeed , the .
the ceremony the the motion held today , this same the the Senate is the one of the ways , we can honour to the people in the Canadian battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence .
her the Gouverneure general , Chairwoman Clarkson , was the " that opportunity .
it is the disclaimer to the former Veterans the Canadian battle of the Gulf , the the men and the the women who have the Canadian and democracies to their country .
this event commemorative regroupait , the the families and the the friends of those who have given their lives to our country .
it . the fact eat the the heart of the Canadian and hundreds of acceptance sitting , the gallery .
thus we will twenty the the officer of the navy , the the air and the the army .
they also are concluded to the memory and the part of this ceremony very special .
this is the our young that he decide the preserve the heritage successors by our former Veterans .
he come to the Seniors in the corporation the occasional the new generations to the memory .
the CHST the parliamentary and the Canadian , we , the worthwhile personal the Canadian War II. World and the we lost the the parents and the the friends to the years of the conflict , our duty to this regard . , the response .
we can the us duties of the duty in Montreal , the the events as the Canadian the ceremony the the Souvenir the the morning .
despite a certain r?ticence , I must say that I have had a little shame . morning of note that only 15 senators , were .
the former Veterans and the children . seen that $ 80 seats were free .
the appointment to the number of the signatures great heroes Canadian of the century century
the Honourable Catherine S . Callbeck :
honourable senators , he is the most of 90 years , the Canadian the exact the Canadian version original English - the novel Anne - Government London , the pignons donors , the was far the feeling that is novel become the one of the Depression the fiction the most depleted the Canadian literature Canadian , but it is ind?niable that he has now , the country identity cultural .
Anne transcende the generations and the boundaries the the Canada and across the the world .
he is surprising the feeling that today , the almost a century , the first made , the young Pages , Anne as a model of the positive .
the course , Anne - Government London , the pignons donors is the implementation of Lucy Maud Montgomery , the us . the Canadian many other tasks fascinantes the the years of the career literary , there was the romans the countries . " the shadow Faries of York Moon , the motion presently t?l?diffus?e the the time .
recently , in the part of a bill sponsored about Dominion Institutes and the Council of the Canadian , Lucy Maud Montgomery the summer substances as a part of the 20 great Canadians , the century century .
all the people of the Island , Prince Edward Island , Prince know , what the the motion true and , through the the writings of Montgomery , the other can the in the fact , the
l . Hamm Montgomery is a treasury literary and the people of the Island , Prince Edward Island , Prince are proud that it be the one of the people .
now , we know that the other Canadians are themselves as proud of the .
the Court Supreme
the appointment of the Honourable Beverley McLachlin the the position of Justice in the
the Honourable rald - A .
honourable senators , I wish congratulate the Honourable Justice Beverley McLachlin to the Belgian the the position of Justice in the Canadian the Court Supreme the the Canada .
i am delighted to this appointment to go to vigueurle 7 January 2000 .
he is a , as you the you , the Canadian first woman to gain the the position . prestigious in the system constitutional Canadian .
her McLachlin is a good lawyer , the gravi all the Foreign the Canadian Bar to the eventual , become Justice in the Canadian the Canada .
in the , after the summer Sudbury , then lawyer , practical private , it has been appointed successivement the Canadian Court Superior the Canadian British - British , then , the Court of Appeal , before the back to the Court Superior the CHST the Krever , Chief .
in March 1989 , it was appointed to the Court Supreme the the Canada , the the age of 46 years .
it has made his wand in many of areas of the right .
the not . not , the Canadian , the the case , today , Charter Canadian of the rights and Freedoms in our lives and the role increased the country court of the individual .
the Krever McLachlin the so received the the recipient Doctorates of the universities the Canadian British - British the 1990 , the the Alberta , 1990 and the Toronto , 1995 .
i would wish to the success that it deserves , the " the summit the the power judicial , and the the transition of the jurisprudence the Canadian outlines Canadian .
the closure possible , the government 500,000
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , the not . not easy to live in French , Ontario , the government . Mike Harris .
the matter of the hospital Montfort is still before the courts .
we look for five months , the Act , help the this institution . health speaking in Ontario .
is that today , the the government Harris the possible to eliminate a place institution speaking , but this time in the area of the education .
he is a the the College of painters , the only college the quality of the years , Science agri the French , Ontario .
the government Harris cell , his minority francophone the the battra to maintain this institution , this community , the 50 years , building .
the French - the Ontario , the right to unravel , the living and the work in their language .
the motion of the Ontario the one strong industry agroalimentaire that he we must the first price sauvegarder and the Protection what the Canadian survival of the College of painters .
the one time , he will tra?nerM. Harris and the government to the courts for the justice .
thief that is the response and fatigant !
business routine
the adjournment
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 59 ( 1 ) at ) the the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate . stand today , the the Senate to Tuesday next , the 16 November 99 , the 14 at the
the Hon. the Speaker :
bill to the Second - First Reading
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . the the bill to the S - 10 , the Act , individuals on the Defence down , the Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques and the Code offence .
( the bill to the motion read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . second time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Hays , the second reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the traditional 16 November 99 . )
the Code offence
bill to the Second - First Reading
the Honourable Raymond J . Perrault :
honourable senators , I have the honour to present a bill to the the one was introduced in the Canadian session 81 , the bill to the S - 11 , the Act , Code offence to the intrinsic the coercition , a person to the respect to shield medical the are contrary to his religion or the the belief the the character inviolable the Canadian life human .
( the bill to the motion read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . second time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Perrault , the second reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the traditional 16 November 99 . )
the Association Parliamentary Canadian of the NATO
the delegation Canadian , the meeting of the Service - commission of the future of the forces personnel , held in Ankara and Istanbul , in Transferred - Report of the report
the Honourable Rompkey Rompkey :
the situation . the aboriginal and their future
notice of inquiry
the Honourable Aur?lien Gill :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the 1998 17 November 99 , I give the attention of the Senate on the situation . the aboriginal to the us to the make the point and the thought the the government acted to the future .
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Defence down
the replacement of the helicopters Sea King
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
a place Sea King the Canadian and ennuis with the system hydraulique this week .
we know that the kind ennuis seasons the be surviving , particularly if the " the very in the airs .
honourable senators , when the government will be free . C ?
the - be the government giving the one way of determining our ships of Sea a little more so ?
after the , we know that he is replaced the equipment , and we know , the the former government was prepared to initiate the process , 1993 , before the the new . denies the program of the EH - 101 .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I thank the the question of the senator Forrestall , the the concern deep the the functioning of the helicopters Sea King .
as I , I said , the honourable the , the few days , the replacement of these restrictions remains a priority for the government , and the motion to the Prime rank of the priorities of the Minister of the
the fleet the helicopters - and ch - 124 Sea King - the summer livr?e the the Canadian Forces in 1963 , I believe .
the the idea , and the the matter . " is that these restrictions that the service to the 2005 .
he is the in the the Somalia .
the the problems of repair the surgi .
the the 9.8 helicopters the the beginning , 30 , and used .
the motion of the the people can play their role to the the the one another apparatus the current .
the possibility of transfer of investigations on the accident the the Transportation of the safety of the Transportation
the Honourable Micheal J . Michael :
the honourable senators , are not , the the that the date 1 825 days that the government . the regulations that he called immediately . program , and the
the Leader of the government to the Senate is the the concept that we fly the the young woman and the the young women of our Canadian Forces Canadian of travel to displace the one apparatus the motion far the be Motor ?
the problem , the motion that the aircraft are us?s .
they are fatigu?s .
they face we fly a fortune .
he is 38 at the maintenance and sometimes the to do steal a helicopter for a time .
the Minister . the moon - the not the the us challenging the declining the life of the members of our Canadian Forces Canadian ?
the Minister considering the Canadian of the lobbying the responsibility of the investigation the the accident the the military and the Canadian transfer to the Transportation Canadian of the safety of the Transportation , the would have the the years banned the the helicopters the fly ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the Honourable Senator has the " the reason , he described the skills of the members of the Canadian Forces Canadian representing the Canadian maintenance and particularly the most of the roles of the helicopters Sea King .
he agrees will be , the most of the listed among the most exp?riment?s the the world to the the motion of the kind of administration .
i do think that the the Honourable Senator whatever let the the the forces personnel be sent to resort the staff in a replacement that they not Pages not deter and grants for removal of Secretary .
he is the in the the cause certainly the , the Canadian and challenges the challenges the the chapter the the face .
when the length of life to the one Room of equipment military coming to his late , the number and the complexity of these challenges transfers .
it is the product and that continue to the devastating .
what the the in the , it is to the " that we enverrions the the people in Bosnia if they security and their lives were in danger .
we should recognize the excellent work that the inspection relating to the face intelligence and that they continue to work .
as the Honourable Senator , I hope that these helicopters will replaced quickly ; and the , he is the few days . only , the Minister . the the the assurance that this remained the priority The a and that he will the so that the matter speedily the subject allure .
i will say , the Minister that the senator and I - the the encourageons the problem of the the most efficiently possible .
the senator Forrestall :
the Leader of the government to the Senate . the not answered the question . .
my question , the answer .
let - I , there add a track and I hope that he is respond .
here , second track of my question : the Minister agree - the the the work pre the the replacement of the helicopters consortium the previous was done when the Prime Minister of the announcement of claims the program of learning of the EH - 101 ?
two years of the people have been accomplies .
we , we have some assurance ?
we have waited eight years and we do we not intended to the one left the three years , because the the motion critical .
these helicopters . the not fiables .
the should the strike the removal of flight .
the Minister will be the us that is that he would the Canadian proposal that the Canadian monitoring of the performace of these restrictions would Creator the the Transportation of the safety of the Transportation and the most of the military Canadian ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the senator questions of the .
he asked the first , I can or not to ensure that the helicopters will replaced the eight years .
the following the the I can conclude the the talk the I have conversations with the Minister , I am sure that we do wait not eight years before the headwind the Sea King .
i wish truly the the editorials that we do we not to wait , eight years before the the helicopters that replaced .
the senator has also asked a question to the subject of the investigation the the Somalia linked to the use of the aircraft military .
frankly , the not . not a field that I know . .
i think however , in general , the forces personnel the all the country . roles they , the Canadian . such a profitable .
this is the person - be not necessarily the case and the senator can be the be . enlighten the the subject to a time , the
what the the in the , I do I will the way out for the time .
the replacement of the fleet the helicopters Sea King - Government Position of the credit , Donkin
the Honourable Gerry St. :
honourable senators , my question is supplementary to the issues raised by the senator Forrestall .
he is the the I have pilot? the the aircraft the the Lord the the air and that I pilot , the
i the specific to explain what the I will ask the the Minister .
the government is the gap the authority to the employee of the face of the Canadian and miracles .
i have begun my career military in the face the Canadian to the Canadian the staff Aircrew .
this is the reason for the I know that the pr?pos?s the the face the Canadian the excellent work , but they not make no - miracle .
i have read the recent that a time , maintenance of these Sea King require at 2:00 the face .
he is went up to the and that the " takes if I have extreme - caffeine the vessels to the not steal the people felt that the administration not the not sure .
when the in the record that , the motion nothing .
how the Minister has the same the make the so that committee , the cabinet ?
i believe that if a wonderful occurs , the responsibility in incombera fully the the cabinet , particularly to the Minister of the National Defence and the the Prime Minister of the country .
i believe that he is the Canadian and redundant , as the sublease of Sea .
he is substantially the aircraft , it the Canadian set in the world who could be used to this service in the safety .
why not optons - we not to this opportunity ?
when I have asked this issue of the previous the the Leader of the government , he has answered that he , the discussions with the Prime Minister and that this thing was the the study .
i have helped to displace the one stock the four places in person of a place . our senators ,
i have constant a working particular , the question of the safety .
the so , Senator the summer Liberal , I would throw the same attention to the safety .
when I was in the forces air , I have certainly pilot? the the aircraft , the their vetoes the the Liberal or civilian , along the Liberal , and I was the so aware of their safety .
honourable senators , I humbly urge the Minister of the Canadian of the lease the the aircraft and I ask that the " I await a response to this regard .
as I , I said , he is the Canadian and millions of Sea .
in America , the North only , the in the " the least , the thousands .
why not leases the not ?
why staffs - we are eminently the Canadian the ?
the way , we staffs our military to various other ways . , bid .
why staffs - we , the so , quick the poor the donor the the lives and the , the advent , confiscation the calling them own life ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
the Honourable Senator has raised , many of the and I do chercherai not to respond to each of the one .
the specific , in the the concerns of Replacement Sea King , the Honourable Senator has indicated that my predecessor the in the the discussions with the Minister of the possibility of common to the sublease .
i do I do issue . the with the Minister .
however , I will certainly try to have a discussion such with the Minister and I am perhaps the be second , the Canadian forces the the information , specific .
honourable senators , before the frustration my stool , I wish to point that the Canadian Forces Canadian accomplish a job remarkable , with the helicopters Sea King or any other allies .
they have been appuy?es by the government .
the my opinion , the people who are working of the face of the helicopters Sea King , in the Canadian work of the remarkable , not suffer have the one stock the levy to the B.C. that he is a threat to those who is contemplated to the ship .
the pr?pos?s the the face of the helicopters Sea King accomplish a job remarkable in the the circumstances , the need to the the goodies , are difficult , particularly when the " the fact , the fact that he is a the old aircraft .
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the possibility of a fund . Tax to the farmers who wish change the profession
the Honourable Herber O . Sparrow :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
however , before the Canadian question , I wish to get the the sincerity my everlasting and those of the House of the power to the Canadian the discussion that we have conversation yesterday , the subject of the crisis crop to the Canada .
i thank all the honourable senators , and contribution to the debate .
i have thought that the the Minister of the Agriculture will now , a statement to the House of the House of the increase the the budget of the program ACRA .
i am not a little concerned , a section The in the Globe and Mail , today , the " quelque that :
the US also that the Minister considering the jobs a fund interim to the farmers who donate the regular the the Agriculture and the the recycler .
i am concerned because the I do know that organization of farmers and no farmer , the one such program .
it . the " thinning that the government holds the heights the farmers to abandon the Agriculture .
this is the not the objective of our representations .
this is the analysis , the motion to the the farmers . continue to grow the land , not the occasional the Canadian life .
when the farmers . the Saskatchewan , the the Manitoba and the the Alberta leaving the machinery , the fabric social the this part of the Canada is d?chir? .
he is that all the farmers and all the families of farmers remain . the people are to support the system of the elevators to grain , the system of post and the system of health .
if the article states true , I am very concerned .
the Leader of the government to the Senate may , he we say , the government and the Minister of the Agriculture elongated serious the quality of such program ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I thank the Honourable Senator .
the answer to the first part of the question , I say that I do I , the armed the no discussion or the no proposal , the meaning the Canadian my talks with the Minister .
i do I , will the Canadian . the knowledge , the idea . was moved by a place organization .
however , as I am occasion , the Senate . , the afternoon , the " the office a previous the the Minister of the Agriculture and the the Agroalimentaire the expenditure the details of the offer the by the Minister .
i have asked to my personal the " cigarettes the French bilingual the the announcement to the the honourable so , to knowledge .
i do the receiving the little .
if such is the good happy to the honourable senators , I have remettrai the the copies of this announcement .
the announcement not the state or the program of buying or the other provisions of this nature .
this amount . add to the somewhat bracket million . $ 7 to the CHST the cash federal annual the the farmers .
the most , the other changes to the guideline of the Canadian the program are the the study .
in the case , the rules that the first ministers provincial the are concluded the Ottawa recently to express their concerns the this regard to joindront the the government , for the the program ACRA . the delivery .
i suppose that the provinces continue to adh?rer the Canadian rule now , the share of the cost based , the the fact , the basis of 60 / 40 the settlements the Canadian . 170 million . $ amounts .
in the case , that , the fund . Gustafson seat the one another $ considerable .
the request of a program of peace - and producers the people land
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , I have a question supplementary the the peace - and producers the people land .
the the time at the the not be more than 2.5 per - the people of the the area of the Agriculture .
he is therefore , a the the , to the
the the United - United , the chairman Clinton . said that he has decided to sign a moment to the the the farmers are facing the one real the Canadian emergency and not have not wait .
the extent provided a $ the 8,7 billion . $ to the farmers American .
the chairman of the Syndicat national the the farmers . " that this infusion the assistance can do the difference between whose and stay in the .
the important , the motion of candour the farmers in agriculture .
the Leader of the government to the Senate would the the the please the information that the the cabinet ?
we have been happy to learn that the one took some measures to infuser the Canadian capital in the situation .
i think that is the way of the understanding , the the the extreme state of the situation . the us do with the
however , the Leader of the the us to the the African the government to tough a program for policing the farmers in agriculture , the Canadian and help to the 1958 ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I do I no difficulty the " that the " should be . the the motion expectation that the teachers the farmers in agriculture , the people continue to make a contribution to the life and the Canadian society Canadian as they the people . " the years of the years .
i wish simply paraphrasing a part of the release of deferred the just the " Can .
the Minister of the Agriculture and the the Agroalimentaire that : " We meantime the the provinces , the privilege to us , in the part of the program ACRA , for cover 70 per - and marges negative the the producers or both the the government imports . "
the same , the Minister of the Agriculture and the the Agroalimentaire the said that we will continue to work with the provinces and the area crop to find the the ways of the in the " and producers , particularly those who are the most of having .
this statement that the no doubt that a commitment to the government , there and that he is accompanied the amounts important to come to help to those who are the most of having and the murder the most of the " Now their land .
i am eagerly the the the this bill will the effect d?sir? by the Honourable Senator .
the Minister of the Agriculture and the the Agroalimentaire deserves the be helpfulness the be spent in the action . expect a solution n?goci?e with the provinces .
in correcting immediately this money in the program , the Minister and the government , r?agissent the way . direct and very active .
the opposite that the provinces and embo?teront the not and initiatives to the enrichment of the ACRA .
the government , and the Minister . the however , whom do tra?ner the things for a week , wavered days , 10 days , a month and not have not expected to have a guarantee written to this effect .
the Minister has responded immediately .
this money will improve the functioning of the program .
he will reach the the farmers the the needs are the most great and the murder the most of life their land .
the Program of the in the Canadian origin related to the income crop - Conformity allowance the fund additional - Request for confusion the Canadian statement of the Minister
the Honourable Herbert O . Sparrow :
honourable senators , the Leader to the the " that the new money will close to the former ?
is the the that is that he is that when he said that the things golden the vaccine ?
the farmers . the not yet been the former the individual they have a the Constitution of the program ACRA and now , the manner that the the new money they will close to quickly ?
i am asking if the Leader of the government to the Senate might rapporter the message following the the Minister , the knowledge that the the new money , we do we not really need to a place accompany the 47 pages .
we in the rather , the former ; we delay that is the most than the
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the government has recognized that the fund , were exhausted in the part of the program ACRA not , not paid enough to the the beneficiaries .
i have listened the excellent speech that the senator Carstairs , the last in this chamber .
it has clearly and the entire candeur the the problems that struck the program .
the money . was not paid to the farmers in the need to quickly that the government , and the other parts of the agreement ACRA the same wanted .
he not the not paid to the farmers also to the the concepteurs the the program , they wanted .
the use of these new money will set the the same rules .
the fund golden in the same garbage .
the Minister has however , announced that some changes would affect the the program , through are the motion to expect that the farmers except that money . the vaccine .
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , in order to the former program , in the case of a medium the three years of a farmer , the the the gr?l? a year and that then the drought the s?vi a or two years of the , the 70 per - that average the three years . suffiraient ignore not .
the Minister could the the make that the the chamber . the cabinet the ones the the motion is the help the farmers the the needs are the most criants ?
the people have been injured the soft or the farm , 70 per - two years bad . riment the way .
this are these people who have the most suffered ; it . the people who , the the most needed .
the the the program , effective , the the changes to impose to the one term , these suffering .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the problem . " - be the downswing .
i paraphrase the new the release .
i know if the change requested a solution to the problem raised by the senator , but it allows the word that a balancing is scheduled for the situations that he we , conducted .
honourable senators , the the " the fishing the table the release .
i just the the receiving in the two languages official and I will be the the copies additional to the honourable the the arts .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Hon. the Speaker :
we in quiet the the copies and the distribuerons as the provinces will ready .
the request of the financial the vote of the d?shydrateurs the luzerne
the Honourable Nicholas W . Taylor :
honourable senators , I have a question supplementary .
the Leader of the government to the Senate may , he inform the cabinet the the problem that are the d?shydrateurs the luzerne the the West , the squabbling their harvests the Canadian and producers ?
they are in difficulty , because they had promised to the farmers as the $ the elderly and they must the sale the price .
he is a follow the small firms , sometimes the the pools .
some dozens of the provinces in the west of the Canada will probably Tax , because of Minister of the Agriculture , determined that they were in the Canadian and corporations and that they not , therefore not covered the the program ACRA .
yet , if they are Tax , a number of the farmers . will the sale their luzerne .
the the the the is that the very small businesses , they generates the the jobs .
since the program ACRA not . the no , the this regard , I hope that the Leader of the government to the Senate will bring their problems , the cabinet and the the the long a place to the the help to the years of the two or three years in the Canadian keep linking the d?shydrateuses the luzerne .
after the , the farmers in the MVTA need .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I know grateful to the senator , the comments that he has made to the subject .
i am happy to speak to bring his concerns the the cabinet , including the the Minister appropriate .
the fishery and the Oceans
the provinces marine - Government to the Canadian Court Supreme confirmant the rights of Fisheries aboriginal - Effect effects on the economy local
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , my question the Act , the centre different , the Canadian decision that the Court Supreme the decision recently in the case Marshall .
the important to the the " may consider this decision , the most of the people administration , it will the deep impact on the life of the aboriginal and the the other Canadians , the region . the Atlantic .
in addition , the government . Standards will the the consequences for the economy and the Finance . , the Canada .
i will highlight the consequences force for the scourge of the Island of Sable , the rights of additional and the rights minerals , and the Canadian , the
the Leader of the government to the Senate might - the " what measures and what plans of emergency are now the in the to do with the the ajustements economic and the the impact of the judgment of the Court Supreme ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , as the the record , the , the decision Marshall the Canadian first , for the immediate the jobs . crisis in the fishery , the Canada Atlantic .
the priority of the Minister of the Fisheries and the the government has been the attempt to Haiti the situation . the most soon in the hope the eyes the personalities and the whole the meeting of talks between the two parties of the " and a solution sustainable the one problem , the Canadian and effect . serious the short term .
some perform the us we were witnesses we have all the difficulty the the comfortable , I , I am .
the process of negotiation the short term , the well established .
the personalities seems restored and we have a hope the make extra the talks .
he not be a dual only by the fishermen the the Canada Atlantic , not more of the the by the employee of office of Vancouver .
this is the the country , the government . the , in recognition of the rights aboriginal such as d?finis by the Court Supreme .
i am eagerly the the the the Senate . process , long term .
however , in the areas where he is the date find a solution , including the the fishery the the Atlantic , I think that the the fact , the excellent work and I hope that the cause in this vein .
the possibility of a further , resulting to the fishermen recommendation change the profession
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , I do I do have to put the out of the the the senator Sparrow the question . earlier , the subject of the program of Occupational the are affected or the the Korean the reasons of such programs would consulted to the area crop .
various sources argue that the the amounts the summer down to a so , the Canadian Industrial - I do parlance not the word " buy the .
i have heard about the 500 million . $ - I believe that indeed eight z?ros , the five - the armed paid only to the area crop .
this is that a significant huge .
the same kind of reflections is the the Pan to the fishery - in the other words , considering the Canadian up the fishing the matters and the the area of the fishery and the other areas , the the ajoutera the other z?ros the the amount of the motion ? the just a rumour the bench ?
i remember the the Minister that he is the present . the uncertainty in the many communities .
the fishery the winter , a fishing . limited , will soon begin .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I do I confirm no journalists based on the the conjectures .
i would the surprised that the the numbers do the arguments to the stadium .
a the the reasons is the the " no mention not yet the Canadian Grain the the judgment Marshall - the application , the legitimacy and neither .
some of the in the maze government , some of ?chafaude the - be the kinds of assumptions , but I am the Canadian and figures have been seriously affected the the stadium .
he is possible that a licence the mat?rialise the one some inconsistencies .
the comments , honourable senators , I do I do confirm - the " the contrary , the the Korean the the kind of the subject of the farmers .
i do I , the armed the no program of buying the the farmers .
i do I do deceiving the Senate . mistake the this regard .
however , the situation is down different in the case of the fishery .
a program of buying is already in effect .
in the , he is a program aboriginal the buy in the part comes to redeem the the fishing in some sectors of the fishery to the back to the community aboriginal .
this program actually have before the judgment Marshall , and the motion to the close sure that he is fresher the one some form .
i emphasize the new the Canadian the senator : the situation questions . You not only to the fishermen the the New - New or the Canadian Nova Scotia Nova , but the first , Canada .
on business orders
the Senate . the Senate
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I ask the the Clerk of Boutros the Prime the second point of the Order of the Order , the Canadian Jewish the the " Projets the bill to the " whether , the second reading of the Bill C C - 6 .
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
second reading of Second the the debate
the honourable senators , I am pleased to have the opportunity to speak to the Senate . the bill to the C - 6 , the the CHST abr?g? is the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic .
with the arrival of the new economy . the information , the Canadian Literacy of new ways of information between them , with the market , with the governments and the world world .
all the Canadian . a public in the new economy . the knowledge , 11,000 the the changes to touch deeply all our lives .
the success of the Canada , the 21 century depend the Canadian ability to all the Canadian of the with great the the economy World of the knowledge .
the government . ' s we need to quickly to the giving the the Canadian the access and the skills necessary and the their to the this new Technology . minera the way of respect to the information personal the people can now expect .
the Bill C C - 6 , the Act , the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic , is a not a in the potential of these objectives .
honourable senators , the bill to the C - 6 is the negotiation of a review enlightened by the many experts in the area of the protection of the data and the the trade Ministerial , the consultation public broader and the one of review the the other place .
he will put the Canadian intense hearings by a committee Standing the the Senate .
the bill to the the attack the three issues broader to help the Canadian , the operating the true potential of the Internet as m?dium the information and the Canadian businessmen .
the bill to the will , first , set a solution to alternative Ministerial to deal with the government , and second , and a nearly legal to the issues electronic and the the signatures electronic seemingly ; third , protect the information personal the the Canadian , they deal with the the business private .
the government , the summer the one of the first , using the system Internet to improve the services . the option to the Canadian , the in accroissant the effectiveness and the reducing the cost .
it is the the sophisticated Conducted by the government , the Canadian the public , the Canadian transmission of the statements of income to the research , Chairman of a variety of learning , can now be conducted the way Ministerial , and the Canadian the many more sizeable and the efficient that stood .
however , the the make a to make profit the first , the the Internet the " we offer if the modifiait the legislation and regulations federal , into the
it is the our laws and regulations explicitly that the information be a Message by letter or the some information be bringing a copy .
these provisions can be interpr?t?es , and the are often , as early a request manuelle the paper , emp?chant as the the use the Canadian and insensitive electronic .
the bill to the C - 6 we now , the our laws and regulations consistent with our new environment Ministerial .
he we will the quality of thing . alternative to the transmission of information on support paper .
the parties 2 , 5 , the bill to the C - 6 residence the virtues - " party the to the support paper in our laws and regulations federal , the substance destroyed this concept of support .
otherwise , the the legislation and regulations reconna?trons now , along and information electronic the the same up to the documents suffice .
the bill to the C - 6 will the sophisticated Conducted the support Ministerial the the words of the legislation federal imports the ones Conducted the paper .
the citizens and the business will then be some of the documents and signatures electronic the Canadian , woman legal .
the bill to the C - 6 not remplacera not and not eliminate not the communication by letter .
he will not the Canadian transmission Ministerial the data by computer a option to the time realistic , practical and especially whose the the level legal .
the most , we search the the government , the quality of the services , a form the corporation the most of the popular the Canadian and Canadians , the by way Ministerial , the the way of Internet .
the Canadian want to the ever to the the sophisticated electronic , but only with their governments , but also with the area private .
the Canadian and evidence from the course , based on the results of polls the opinion , the number of Schedule now drink the Internet and the the rate of rBGH the the sophisticated .
in the Canadian the Palestinians the the facilities and the Canadian skating increased to the the people in the area of progress technological , the business silent the most of the Canadian information from the suggestions the most of the various , the ?changent the opportunity , the transmettent the way and the combinent the way , ing?nieuse that have the
it has changed the treatment of the information personal the one of the
the information personal are now prided , products and ?chang?s .
they have a certain value trade .
the the fleurisse the trade Ministerial the the Canada , the consumers be a comfort the Canadian the the people information personal are viewed , sauvegard?s and used .
the Canadian concerned that their lives private not be danger by the pure growing the the sophisticated electronic , the the Rural the the information and the the fichiers accumul?s the individual the one we .
they want to the government horizontal with the business for another . problem .
the the results of a survey of the returns Angus Reid diffus?s the July 1998 , 88p. per - and Canadians find the shocking to the the business and the organizations vendent , ?changent or concerns of the patient enclosing the the information personal .
the environment , the business . recognized the malaise that this could harmonize and the report of Conduct volunteered the Canadian protection of the information personal perpetrators by the Association Canadian of normalisation .
the so , the efforts by the business for upholding the code are automotive , the Canadian . need to promote guarantees to the have the certainty that their lives private is prot?g?e when they are the the sophisticated .
the bill to the C - 6 redistribute the the Canadian that their lives private will prot?g?e the latest a criminal the protection of the information personal the Canadian , being and required .
the the time at the the information personal tough all the boundaries , provincial , land and national .
however , the the the the bill to the C - 6 is shaped the the world . the business , the government , does the the whalers a year legitimate the Hon. the Canadian regulatory the the trade , the Canada .
however , honourable senators , the committee which is the Canadian law . referred wholeheartedly the the evidence of expert the agreements point of the arguments for the fight to the subject of this issue constitutional .
honourable senators , he is clear that the feasibility of the legislation Finance .
the provinces , the provinces hold only or collectively , not have been the the legislation evidence of protecting effectively the information , franchit the limits provincial and international .
a business of the British - British recueillant the the information on the the obvious to the Manitoba the the directors , a place , the the New - New or the York Times .
he is therefore clear that the Canada has need to a bill national to protect the data personal the benchmarks circumstances , the one bill , would blended with those of the provinces and the the territories diligence their role in their sought the federal .
honourable senators , the bill to the C - 6 will the ports , all the areas of activity , regardless of the size of the business .
it involves , the area of the health .
he will allow the protection of information personal the federal - health , the summer collected , used and releases in the part of the trade .
the the the rules on the protection of the data figures of a juridiction the the other , the government encourage the provinces and the territories to protect the data the the citizens in their sought the federal and the the harmonize not only with the bill federal - the protection of the information personal , but also of them .
the part 1 , the bill to the C - 6 makes the right to the protection of the information personal .
it states the rules , the conduct of raising , the use and the communication of the information personal in the part of the trade .
the principles set in the standard of the CSA the policy , the way , the organizations should terrorism , using , permit and protect the information personal .
they claimed that the business be given the purpose concerning the information . collected ; to the the particular , suspend the collection of information ; use and disadvantage the the information personal ; and understand the the government passing the access to the issues and voted the responsibility of the organization .
this is the commissioner to the protection of the life private the the Canada , will the Canadian superviser the enforcement of the part 1 , the bill .
he will the Canadian to the and the role of the Canadian m?diateur the case of dispute and that the make the in the case of the complaints .
the my opinion , the committee criteria , before the the rules to the resulting the the the the commissioner to the protection of the life private , in the fiscal the the roles of rolling and the m?diateur , respect to incarceration guidelines arising the various decisions released by the Court Supreme , there was the decision on the powers in the Canadian delving , the perquisition and the fall of the former Bill respecting the the investigation the the coalitions the report with the case of the Edmonton Journal .
this is clearly that a comment on the the committee criteria the committee .
the differences not resolve can be active in the part of this bill , the likelihood the Canadian Court federal , the it goes submission the question .
the commissioner to the protection of the life private the broad , credit a very mandate , the Canadian education . the public , the help the business . satisfy the the requirements of the bill .
the the time at the the Canada , the person is that the protection of the information personal is sporadique and in?gale .
the majority of the export not have no not cast the respect to rule that is that the Canadian cueillette , the use and the disclosure of the information personal .
the other . enable the the the the commissioner to the protection of the life private the the Canada has called a " fragments the Canadian law , the regulations and the codifies .
he not there has the Canadian province of Quebec , has a bill to larger scope divesting the use of the information personal by the area private .
the business Canadian looking as the Senate agreed . the legislation which fixerait a single the Canadian rules Finance to the grounds the rules of the beginning to the international the the country and the the various types of business .
the business Canadian holdings that the protection of the life private the Canadian the good sense of the plan of the business .
they include the one bill flexible , but effective help to convince the obvious of the the trade Ministerial and , therefore , the increase the volume of the business .
the Canada has need to a new bill to protect the life private .
this bill be to a number balance .
the one of the the , the the right to the human the exercise a powerful the the information personal , and the need to the the consumers of the use effective . the B.C. that the in the fact , stated brings .
the other hand , the bill be responding to the needs of the industry , the right thing and use of the information personal , the the motion of our vital to the success in the economy . the information .
honourable senators , I believe that the bill to the C - 6 , the us are before the way of a balanced .
he will the building the confidence the the consumer . in instaurant the rules , testify to the environment , the business of climate of certainty the the the need to exploit the TAGS the potential of the trade Ministerial and the help to do the the Canada . The the leadership in the trade Ministerial and the area of the information .
i have forward to take the " the study of the bill to the " the committee .
i urge urge all the honourable the other hand , this study and the chamber , bill to the C - 6 , the opportunity to the the committee .
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I hear , the the comments enough ?toff?es the the bill to the , after what I move the adjournment of the debate .
many people and organizations have expressed the the concerns the the subject of the bill to the .
i try to take the the provisions for the meeting of the beginning of the week next , if possible .
i think the particular , the the representatives of the area of the health .
i do I do complete my remarks to the reading of the second reading , hear them . the view .
after the adjournment of the debate , I am proposing the complete my remarks to our back , after the medical the the Order of the Souvenir .
i draw the " and honourable senators , the the least one another friend of the side - the , the senator Oliver , where to the the debate . second reading .
in fact , the bill to the MASH two measures in a single .
her the Minister of the Justice the it is the Marshall , when it has appeared before the committee , the Commons , the the , the " the beginning of the Canadian law separate , the the the officials have borne .
the the years of the study the the cabinet , some of the past with the the ciseaux and a smile the glue and the announcement of the make a single " .
the part 1 belonging the information personal the are viewed the Canadian and for trade .
the parties 2 , 5 veilleront the the the the documents and the disclosure electronic that consistent with the Act , the evidence to the Canada , the Act , the Statutory Instruments , the Act , the review of the legislation , and the Canadian , the
this bill facilitera the trade Ministerial with the government . the Canada .
the part 1 and the parties 2 , 5 , the limit not to a principle or the one theme the particular .
this bill to the motion in the one bill to the planning .
this is the Canadian the Honourable Herb Gray , the myth , the the name of the Opposition to the opportunity to the debate on the free - free to the House of the House of 1988 .
here , the "
the Main advantage of a procedure omnibus , the motion that the bill to the in the , the the the legal the establishing or the Constitution of legislation disparates , based on a principle or a goal , restricts a link between the the legislation proposed , affordable and the bill to the intelligible in the context Parliamentary .
however , the bill to the " no part not to the as the said , with this definition .
the - the motion . concise .
many attests the people resuming by the following , the considering as a good definition of the the should be a good bill omnibus .
the bill to the C - 6 not . not a good bill omnibus .
he built on both themes , both principles different .
the said , the charitable and the settlements the Canadian and problems facing were face the editors , this attempt to invent a principle or a theme , the the not in the way . the way of the head .
this is the " the d?loyal .
is still the the pirouettes legal and assaults .
the first part of the bill to the , the Canadian protection of the information personal , the Act , Chairman personal collected the somewhat the the the Senate , by the the average electronic or any other means .
the long as the in t?chant the giving a principle single or a theme single the the bill to the - I , saying , a time in a wit charitable - is a wonderful absurdit? that the editors we have concoct?e .
the senator Stewart I was accused the , the few years of the the spirit of a mandarin .
i do think that the the Senate is the
the so that the was in the , I am inclinerais certainly the the senator Kirby , because I do would the not in the same ligue that the " that the .
however , I think that prior enough to experience for that some other , the spirit mandarin and the " the spirit policy .
the one time , the somewhat a is out and the said : " As we do we are as the time Parliamentary the country clause , collons these two - the bill , the "
i do proc?da , ?lectroniquement , that , the the cut - slipped .
this is the the the bill to the the summer set .
this is still the same , the the same basis , the knowledge of convenience the the executive the reason the prerogatives of the Parliament , the numerous and again , subordonn?es been 30 years and the , the my humble opinion , the turn the House of the House of a real coquille vacuum .
this is very regrettable .
i do know that the well , we , the the side - the , should continue to the .
the one side , I am saying that we must do take Position the Canadian and that the the kind , by allowing .
the one another side , I am saying that the the other place , he is the past so , time that they have the forgotten the event could well retraining their prerogatives and that , the people . the in soucient not , why should the us we in venture ?
i will not feign the the opportunity to look my colleagues to the basis , the " a stage ult?rieur the the debate , we want to the question .
the senator Graham , remember certainly the the many examples of the Canadian law divided by the Senate .
when I admit the the side 1939 and that I was responsible for the ACOA , I had the one bill to the motion to create this agency and the other agencies , the Canadian Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape .
he is the Canadian and the the the regroupaient very well , but I friend the senator Graham and the Leader of the party to the time , the senator MacEachen , they would share .
a message the summer sent to the House of the House of the make the the us we Physicians the bill to the in both , and the rest .
i wanted to this , honourable senators , the so that the motion that the CHST informatif , because the the the is the one issue of principle .
the bill to the was the bill to the C - 54 the Canadian the first session of the present Parliament .
he is death to the Order of the reading of the report , the time , the prorogation and the summer ressuscit? the the beginning of this new session .
this is my I , that the the bill to the C - 6 and the the evidence heard by the committee has the in the part of the deliberations on the bill to the C - 54 .
the following the the I have been pleased , the parties 2 , 5 , the the parties the the trade Ministerial , not reviewers no objection the principle .
the controversy , if I can do speak to prompt , from the Canadian the part 1 , the Canadian protection of the life private .
it upon the problems , hopefully when the " wants to souder two - the bill .
he is the very well , the witnesses , the other parts interested and the legislators the the other place have constant too little of the " and parties 2 , 5 . God knows that these parties are important .
they ambulances , and other , the the system judicial , the the courts , the right , the statements the Place and the rest .
he is the the , since the part 1 prepared more to prompt , the parties 2 , 5 , the Deployment the spark only as a the parties interested that the the legislators .
i the said , the motion . a problem adequate the Fur when the overlapping two - the bill , a single .
in the the concerns of the 1 , and my remarks of today , the limiteront to the most of this part , the the " the fishing the sincerity my great pr?jug? looks .
i am a defender advocate of the protection of the life private .
it is indissociable the Canadian dignity of the individual .
the Act , the protection of the life private protects the individual , the rights , his life private the would the fact , the government , or the the one of the agencies .
this bill is effectively .
the the the I know , it . the ever been .
we do we not before the day , the to protect the information personal collected in a light commercial .
i commend the government . the Presbyterian this gap .
he , was time and I will readiness , demonstrates .
i trust hope that he will the fact , the support the us comptons to the this initiative , I believe that the " the name of the honourable the the side - the Canadian the House of the the first , the I speak to the Hon. the , the would contribute to the to the the criticism , will step in the vote of our agreed with the text the foetus the information personal collected the Canadian and for trade .
the this regard , I do see no - secondary , the the contrary to some people , the the the the commissioner to the protection of the life private jouisse the some powers .
i do believe that the the powers that inordinate .
i believe that the life private the the individual any of a point this is the Parliament must move to the that , the the the need , for the protection .
i Appointments the way that the structure of the bill to the the fact , the Canadian some criticism .
the Journals 1 , the same contains a combination of the issues obligatoires - that the right to the - and the the issues urgently - that the person and should be done .
the lawyers , the committee carefully . C - the and the people prepared to the findings stating the the subject . stated that is an very difficult and that is that the " would have to the and that the " should always be , would the inclusion all the provisions obligatoires took in this Printed in the body of the bill , not bearing the the issues possible or feels in the Journals .
i point of the " the intent of the committee .
if it is to the latest the bill to the , as more .
the the fact , the senate the Canadian House r?clamant a exemption general .
i do appreciate not a the kind of the .
he is possible however , in some areas , and the Canadian the health . , immediately to the spirit , the the " may ask a single particular , under the Canadian law , and I will moment , later .
as I , I have said , I do I do . looks to the kind of the Canadian exemption .
in the , I do I do some of the Canadian agreed with some of the exemptions have CTAISB in the bill to the " the time at the
i wish to carry attention your attention of the rule 4 ) 2 ) c ) the Canadian of 1 , the rules that this part . the GST not :
... the one set the the respect to the information personal that it recueille , using or Law the Canadian and for legends , arts or litt?raires and the no other for the
i speak to first , the purpose arts or litt?raires .
the event , is the the ?
it is to appear , not be a definition extremely civil ?
i believe that it . is the
the - that the extent a little ?
we should the first , the attempt .
when the question . was raised in the study of the committee , the House of the House , he has been underlined the the years of a statement that the this exemption , the distortions be a contrary to the bill .
you know that the are the distortions , honourable senators ,
they include a mixture of facts and the fiction .
they are interesting to look , but they should be the be a workplace by a bill to the kind .
the not be a - be not the burden systematically .
i believe that the question deserves the be conducted .
the the the motion of the exemption the the information personal collected the Canadian and for legends , the reason for the this exemption is scheduled is very simple : the it is there is the the the bill to the was passed , he would appoint , and very likely with great , in order to the Charter Canadian of the rights and Freedoms in citing the right to the sincerity , the freedom of deferred .
this is probably true .
however , it raises a question in my mind : why the Charter Canadian of the rights and Freedoms . the - it is the protection of the right to the life private , the the doctor . the Act , the plan that the rights relating to the freedom of the press ?
i think that he is unfortunate that the Charter Canadian of the rights and Freedoms . pr?voie not a moment protection .
let - I , to the the honourable senators , Chairman of order historic .
he is the long - that , in 1979 , the government Trudeau , by the University of the Minister of the Justice of the , Mr. Jean Chr , prit the commitment , in a statement of principles constitutional , the the right to the life private would the one of the rights . the government , proposerait the signatures in a future Charter of the rights and Freedoms .
when the opportunity was came to the make the Canadian the the the leading to the Constitution of 1982 , the same government , r?incarn? the one form different , 1980 , the motion cake .
Mr. . Chr was the new Minister of the Justice .
the honourable senators , remember that a committee Joint the Canadian House of the House and the the Senate . held the bill to canadianisation the Canadian Constitution and , the particular , the draft of the Charter of the rights and Freedoms .
the chairs were the senator Harry Hays , the father of our colleague , and Serge Joyal , the was then MP .
the members Conservative and NDP - NDP the the committee prirent the government . move that the right to the life private the name in the Charter .
the senator Kirby , in Algeria .
Mr. . Chr the , opposa .
the point was that the concept of life private was too vague .
in addition , he was the opinion that the life private would enough prot?g?e by the article 7 , the door the Canadian Transportation of the human , and the the article 8 , the the bone , the perquisitions and the saisies abusive , the Canadian Charter .
what the the in the , the government . the Conservative and the the NDP - NDP was defeated , the wrong , I think .
in the negotiations the 1992 , the gates the the Agreement - Charlottetown , the present Commissioner the Canadian protection of the life private , Mr. Bruce Phillips , is dealt and the requested , with great the " - to the the one amendment be brought to the Charter to the it garantisse the right to the life private .
in their wisdom , the first ministers . the people . the .
the said time that we are protected by the legislation on the diffamation .
he would be the the people . paid in the right to me analysent this confirmation , but the the the I can the feeling , the motion that the media can send or equipped the the information that they the wish to the important , the educational that it be true .
the said , from the honourable senators , in a long , The in the road the the Globe and Mail , the morning , the myth the the efforts that are the historians to cancel the commitment that Sir Wilfrid Laurier the work in the bill to protect the data the the census .
i know that the senator Milne has a difference the the subject .
many of La want to the labour the Canadian and evidence personal the people were communiqu?es the the Excellency the Canadian confidentiality the the recenseurs been 1906 , I believe .
the historians players drew the the then red this restriction .
Mr. . Phillips , Commissioner the Canadian protection of the life private , she also supported the the not be not the red .
let - I , that the I am the agreement clarifying Phillips .
if I , the father or my back - a - Polish the release of the information personal the the recenseur the Canadian medical the the commitment to the Sir Wilfrid Laurier , I believe that he would meet this commitment .
as the Honourable Senator the the fact out , the the Canada , he is inexorable that a bill to the Canadian . such concern to the issues Constitutional , in the meaning classic the the issues of the division the the powers and that the the issues federal - provincial the are more of order administrative .
the Canadian . constitutional , the opinions concerns will the one hostages the the other , the Canadian the application appropriate to the power Liberal , the Canadian trade , the the assertion recommendation that the bill to the reference far beyond the significance of the skills of the Parliament , the
my opinion of obtaining , the " will the the the it permanent , the the not . not a , 24 , the the the position of Senator Kirby .
i am the opinion that is the Canadian law the one of staff and legitimate the the power federal , the Canadian trade and the same , the senator Kirby , stating with the - to the as one can the make a layman , some of the reasons , the 269 .
i add that the my opinion , the government , not be not hesitate , as the governments of the fact , the past , the authority , the in the Canadian trade .
the existence is valid .
memory the Hon. usual , the Association of the Bar Canadian . the one occasion , to the the committee , the House of the House .
the out that some legal had said , the Competition ultra , the Canadian and the same ineligible quite consistent the the powers which we operation and that the other , they formulated a difference . centre of the two first , the Association of the Bar Canadian deals that all these positions were appropriate to the words of the Constitution .
the Association of the Bar Canadian . the d?rob?e , I think that the committee should , as the the proposed the senator Kirby , to the TAGS this issue .
we must the study serious .
we should be the experts .
i believe that we can we recognize the the honourable the people . the knowledge and the experience that I , the Constitution .
they Control the - be the " amend the opinion that we have the the senator Kirby and I , the this issue , but I , as the
the Quebec is the only province , protects is the information personal collected the Canadian and for trade .
the utmost benefit of a double protection would be there a perfect the the Code Civil the the Quebec , protects the information personal the most of a Act , the protection of the information personal .
the senator Kirby not the the not mention , then I , I .
during the three alternatives years after the Royal Assent , after the Recognition , this bill to apply only to the activities trade , matters of the government , and the the trade interprovincial .
this is not . the following three years , it is taxable the the activities trade , the trade , a province , and only the this province . the not adopted . the package .
the the request why the government . the first , that , the government . the assertion firm of the power to the Canadian trade , but I believe that is the crash the the fact that the Quebec . , a bill and that the Alberta would the gap the in limbo a .
i add that the ministers provincial and the Justice the all sought the the bill to the Senate refuse .
as I , I said , I believe that is the kind enough far .
in the Canadian the question constitutional , the the point of the Canadian the unambiguous and the Canadian confusion the ability r?gner in the provinces , the their own the , as the Quebec .
we will then the bill federal , the the rate of the activities trade relevant to the federal and the the trade interprovincial , and the bill provincial , the the rate of the activities trade , the trade , the province .
he will be the be more difficult to the the opinion of the Canadian Human of these various business .
that is the the the motion interprovincial and that is the the the motion intraprovincial ?
what the the rate , the bill federal or the bill provincial ?
he would the , the Canadian and difficulties administrative , the the ambigu?t?s and the the ?quivoques .
the problems encountered can always be surmont?s .
the senator Kirby , a mandarin , views certainly this assertion , but the ministers provincial , as I , I said , the requested that the bill to the Senate refuse , and I believe that they should be heard the the " bitter the the opposite or , if the motion that , the answer to their concerns .
the senator Kirby , he and the area of the care of health .
Mr. . Manley , the Minister of the Industry , the the sponsored the bill to the " the other place , does the the the answer to the concerns expressed to the way of a subamendment that he has pr?sent?le 15 October , if I do I understand .
the following the information that I have the the representatives of the area of the care of health , the concerns of such concern . the not the the first step that the the , " .
the Association hygienist Canadian . adopted a position enough firm the this regard .
this is the person - be not as the case of the doctors and the the hospital , but they have all the Canadian and institutional and we need to the the people have the " in the the study of the bill to the in committee .
the Association Canadian of the care of health . particularly concerned , the subject .
the relationship doctor - patient not have not the nature of commercial the , the Canadian definition used in the bill to the , or the person - be with the pharmacies and the other pourvoyeurs the care of health .
the Association Canadian of the care of health . from a notice legal . detailed and , I say , the d?vastateur .
he has the one cabinet the lawyers the Montreal and the human the the actions of Letter of misunderstanding the way of only to do out that the lawyers , they worked the this issue of all served , the CHST the volunteers , the major items in the the hospital and the the Friends of care of health , and Fundamental .
the honourable the the interested in the bill to the , and especially the people of the Canadian to the " the study of the bill to the in committee , the absolute read the opinion legal .
i do I do the agreement with those who feel that we should just exclude the care of health and the area of the care of health .
the my opinion , we should reconsidered the possibility of illness to this important area of the special in the bill .
as I , I said , I have the intent , personally or by the University of my members , the their to the Canadian hear , the people have the " .
i moment the this issue , I proceed to the my remarks , the 16 November .
after the remarks pr?liminaires , honourable senators , I move the adjournment of the debate .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Murray , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act , the border judicial
bill to the Second - Second Reading - Adjourned the the debate
he is a the one bill to the important , the the the the issue of the improvement of the safety of our children and the same the other people vulnerable .
however , he does the us starts in the requirement of the one of the Canadian government legislation important .
he worth . the only to seeing the major component and goals of the bill to the .
the first and the first , the changes will the effect of increased the safety of the public .
they features accessible , for the Canadian study the the years of the filtrage , the border judicial the the Cold sexual the benefit of a rehabilitative and the the Criminal candidates the Canadian and eliminate stipulates a situation . trust .
the , a " indicateur the will put in the system of the casiers court when a restriction body will the subject of a rehabilitative and that the matter will scell? .
it means that when a body , the case of children criteria know the background of new employees , volunteer or Elizabeth , the background of a candidate who has been committed a violation of Nature sexual and the the the summer leave of offenders , not 120 not inaper?us .
the Canadian things are also troublantes that the idea that those who is attack the Canadian and children innocent can find exiled in a company the the children should be diminished the safety and protected .
we know yet the that is already happened .
the bill to the perpetrator a weapon to our collective to help to prevent the Somalia .
in addition , the bill to the will four things .
the Canadian first , he will the clear and mechanisms the system of offenders , providing the existing immediate the Canadian rehabilitative as the the , will condemnation to the the " what a violation Joint , the motion ? " - that a violation the person be prosecuted the by way of the in charge , the by way of statement summary of offending .
second , the candidate who is the view refuse the rehabilitative will await the the least one year before the power to a new to the
third , the calls to the commission of the Canadian refusal or the existing the agreements order , wrote only , the least , the board national the the lib?rations conditional not confer a hearing .
fourth , the bill to the indiquera the clear that the rehabilitative the to the Canadian sceller the matter and the Canadian effacer the fact that he is the in condemnation .
the the all these measures that important , they , the , I wish I focus primarily on the question of the rehabilitative the the Cold sexual .
the Act , the border judicial makes a system of offenders to the former offenders the people showed that they menaient multilateral a life rang?e .
in order to this bill , the border judicial the the Cold the be scell? the people get their rehabilitative the Canadian the board national the the lib?rations conditional .
he is the not . forget that the scellage not efface not the condemnation , not more than it is purge the border judicial .
the condemnation is the first , the valve .
the border judicial the be r?ouvert the Canadian the Canadian the Solicitor General , when the motion in the public . the justice or the Canadian Transportation national .
honourable senators , the rehabilitative not . not granted easily .
it . is only the one person has made in the one may irr?prochable and not the not perp?tr? the spot for a period absence .
in the case of offenders punissables the statement summary of offending , he is necessary to do the Canadian a highly irr?prochable for three years , after the purg? his only .
the bill to the C - 7 specific clear that this includes the payment of amendes .
in the case of actions criminals . serious , the period of waiting is the five years .
the board national the the lib?rations conditional must examine the the claimants the fact , the one may irr?prochable for the this period .
the Canadian to a rehabilitative , the item the police the all the communities where the lifestyle the claimants the the years of the five years in the
he is the knowledge that the vast majority of the r?habilit?s continue to meet the bill .
since 28 years , in the one quarter of harmonizing the r?habilitations the summer awarded and , the the number , only a little more of 138,481 $ the summer r?voqu?es the case of a new offence .
it is a rate of success of the Canadian 97p. per .
the bill to the C - 7 the main the the Cold sexual , the are a little the - Task the the most of the Canadian and short , the rehabilitative .
the Department of the Solicitor General has recently esteemed that the the years of the 28 years in the 4 200 offenders sexual had got a rehabilitative .
only 114 the the Cold , the net per , the view , rehabilitative r?voqu?e to have made a place sexual exploitation .
these estimates indicate that , happily , one of small number of offenders sexual r?habilit?s risk of risk of r?cidiver .
however , as a the number of the the , he is important to reduce the risk to the level of the lower possible .
the bill to the C - 7 we help to the make .
the bill to the C - 7 made support the Canadian and the the people have been taken to protect the children and other people vulnerable .
the , a not a the summer . in 1994 , when the the fund the Universal national the filtrage .
this system based on the Centre of information of the police Canadian , the CIPC or , in English , CPIC .
the " the CIPC , the organizations have access to the the information , and allow the clean the perpetrators sexual the children of their understaffed the applicants the Canadian and eliminate the the protocol the work with the children .
the creation of the system . the following the Canadian extensive consultations with the organizations of the " and children , the authorities school and the officials of the social , the organizations volunteers such as the Clubs the boys and girls the the Canada , the Great Fr?res and the Grandes S9urs , B?n?voles Canada , and that the police and the the organizations of the " and the .
these agencies have said that the integrity of the border judicial was a vital important to a process of filtrage the review .
the Universal national the filtrage is the negotiation of the collaboration of the organizations of the " and children , the worlds policiers , the Centre of information of the police Canadian , and that the departments of the Solicitor General , the Canadian health and the Canadian Justice .
the Universal national the filtrage the the Canadian good results .
the bill to the C - 7 suggests the Universal national the filtrage the corrigeant a scenario the the summer d?cel?e .
in the , the matter of a restriction body r?habilit? the relentless the the attention to the years of a stamp the use the Canadian the Centre of information of the police Canadian , or CIPC , the Canadian and for the filtrage .
in the state of the the things , the Solicitor General has the power to reopen the matter of a restriction r?habilit? and the the information to the the purpose consistent with the board of the justice , including the the filtrage .
as the issues of the kind of semiconductors the the system of the CIPC and retained to the in a basic the data scell?e , they not apparaissent not to the time , a research , stated .
this system of protection , the motion exactly what the legal the Act , the border judicial .
in the most of the case , indeed , these issues should be sinews when he is the rehabilitative .
however , when a person poses his promotion the one of the confidence and that the matter the " that the the , would a level increased the risk for a class specific the people vulnerable , a presence . valid .
the ministers of the Justice and the raisers worry federal , provincial and territorial the are all heard the the point in the their meeting in October 1998 .
a group of the Canadian officials officials . After the average of the protection of children and the subject 10 recommendations in the meaning to the ministers responsible .
these 10 recommendations . the summer resolutions and the in the Canadian be implemented in the .
he has been proposed , and other , the the issues of the Cold sexual , the the subject of a rehabilitative that upon availability to the filtrage the the applicants the Canadian and eliminate the confidence .
the Solicitor General of the Canada , with the support of the Minister of the Justice , the career in the Canadian meeting of 1998 , whether the best way of the make the consultation with all its ongoing provincial .
the bill to the C - 7 was the next step sense .
as I , I have noted , earlier , he says that , when the " Cornillon the the CIPC the matter of a restriction body , the the rehabilitative , the beneficiaries the Canadian the one indicateur .
some say that this bill will the the supreme the the objective basic the Canadian Act , the border judicial and the motion of concern serious , the course .
we want to the system of offenders operating , the
however , he is a the one observer circonscrite and independence , the view , the the relevant .
the ministers of the Justice of all the governments have seconded the principle .
if we do take the this bill , we creating the pain and consequences possible . the rehabilitative the pockets a omits body , the frayer a measure to a position of trust the Canadian children or the other people vulnerable .
he will attend the Canadian law and the Canadian political the the CIPC the the use of the code , to the
he will always to the consent of the claimants , and the last will always the choice of mitigating his request the the not wish to disclose its matter to the board the Heat the the filtrage .
the the government that the claimants is East with estate , the means the fingerprints training to the request of immediately the the scell?s the the matter actually by the rehabilitative .
finally , the Solicitor General will concur that the disclosure of the border . valid .
the pr?cisera the heat allowing the will be conducted , the the factors the will take the consideration by the Solicitor General for trying to the desirability of desceller the matter .
honourable senators , you , amending the - be the the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the government . the good debate on the the was then the bill to the C - 69 during and the Canadian appearance of the Solicitor General in June the and the the opportunity to a meeting . culmination the September .
i wish to the contribution . constructive the the senator Nolin .
the committee was particularly interested by the definitions of children and the other people vulnerable and the the identification specific the Canadian list of the heat allowing the the motion . in the bill to the .
i am sure that the excellent work of the committee will be the the Senate when the committee chair the new . C - the , the motion now , bill to the C - 7 .
he is important to recognize that the bill to the C - 7 from the state of the the government has taken by the government to improve the protection of the children .
these provisions confident the Canadian recommendation unanimous the the ministers of the provinces and the the territories .
they have received the support unanimous the all the parties to the other place .
they are consistent , I believe , with the concern common that the all the House , the Canadian to the the the motion that the protection our children and the chronic vulnerable of the pr?dateurs sexual the contraband the their cause of the wrong .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Kinsella , the the name of the senator Nolin , the debate is adjourned . )
the Committee of Selection
the Canadian the fourth report
the Senate proceeded to the study of the fourth report of the Committee of Selection ( membership of various committee on the report , the Senate 3 November 99 . - ( - ( Senator Jeffrey ) .
the Honourable L?once Jeffrey :
honourable senators , I move the adoption of the report .
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud ( His Honour the Speaker Acting Deputy :
honourable senators , you pleasure , he and the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is passed . )
the Canadian distinguished and their role in the U - Parliamentary
inquiry - Adjourned the the debate
the Honourable Anne C . Cools , with the opinion , given November 99 :
that it call the attention of the Senate on the
the motion of the various the the Canada , the years , the House of the House of the U - Parliamentary , there was the village of the Ontario Fathers Blake , Minister of the Justice of the Canada . 1875 the 1877 and chief of the Liberal Party of the Canada . 1880 the 1887 , the village of the New - New the very hon. Bonar Law , the Minister of the U - Parliamentary the 1922 the 1923 , and the village of the Ontario Sir Bryant Irvine , Chairman of the Canadian the House of the House of the U - Parliamentary the 1976 the amending ;
b ) the people filtered the the Canada , the years , the House of the Lords the the U - Parliamentary , there was the tr?shon. Richard B . Bennett , the Minister of the Canada . 1930 the 1935 , and witty Beaverbrook , Minister of the U - Parliamentary the 1918 and the 1940 the 1942 ;
c ) the Britanniques the birth Born the the U - Parliamentary or in the dominions and colonies the people served in the Senate and the Canadian House of the House of the Canada , there was the tr?shon. John Turner , the Minister of 1984 and chief of the Opposition Liberal the 1984 , 1990 , and I - the , Senator Johnston , ending born in the Antilles similarities ;
d ) the people of citizenship Canadian , the fact , the the Council Office of the U - Parliamentary , there was the first ministers of the Canada , the judges in the Canadian the Court Supreme and some ministers Canadian the the Leader of the government to the Senate . 1921 the 1930 and the 1935 the 1942 , the tr?shon. Senator Raoul Dandurand , the the summer appointed to the Council Office of the U - Parliamentary the 1941 ;
e ) the resolution Nickle the 1919 , a motion of the House of the House of the Canada . the Canadian a question to Her Majesty the king George V , and the comments that the Prime Minister R . B . Bennett the viewpoint the 1934 the Hon. the "
the the was also inefficient , the the possible .
the only the was inefficient , but it was also , I regret to the " , a drag the the sovereign the - the .
the important what court of the constitutional or anyone . the Canadian only to study this issue . in studying , the . " ;
f ) the comments that the Prime Minister R . B . Bennett the viewpoint the 1934 in a letter to the House J . R . MacNicol :
the so that I resterai citizen of the Raj British and loyalist the Canadian the king , I hear recognize the the sovereign the prerogative of learning the services of the issues . "
g ) the many distinguished Canadians who have been 1919 received the the unending the the king or the Canadian Queen of the Canada , there was the rank the the Order of the chevalerie the 1934 the Sir Lyman Duff , Justice in the Canadian the Court Supreme the the Canada , in 1935 the Sir Ernest MacMillan , musicien , in 1986 . Sir Bryant Irvine , Parliamentary , in 1994 , Sir Neil Shaw , changing , and the 1994 , Sir Conrad Swan , de the the Prime Minister Pearson to the subject of the flag national the the Canada ;
at ) the many distinguished Canadians who have received 646 honours and stars the souverains foreign not similarities and the Canadian of 1919 and February 1929 ;
( Deputy the Government legal and constitutional the the Canadian of Fredrick and the citizenship the their ability or their inaptitude the Senate to the House of the Lords and the " the House of the House of the U - Parliamentary , including the Canadian domicili?s the the U - Parliamentary and beyond the Canadian taxation citizenship the the Canada and the the U - Parliamentary ;
j ) the Government legal and constitutional the the Canadian domicili?s the the country , the the foreign the their right to receive the the unending and the the Ordre the their own sovereign , the Queen Elizabeth II of the Canada , and that their right to receive the the unending and the the Ordre the souverains other that the their , there was the sovereign of the France , the honour to the Order Alaska the Canadian Legion the honour ;
scientific ) the unending , the Ordre and the motto the not have not h?r?ditaires as the U the life , the rank the the Order of the chevalerie and the levels military and the chevalerie ;
l ) the recommendation by the Prime Minister British Tony Blair the Queen Majesty the Queen Elizabeth II to the appointment as member of h?r?ditaire the Canadian House of the Lords Conrad Black , a distinguished publisher and entrepreneur Canadian and Colonel honorary the the Governor General' s Foot Guards the the Canada .
the honourable senators , I addressed today , the link historic and constitutional of the Canada and the U - Parliamentary , the disadvantages constitutional and Parliamentary , the Canadian Parents that we share .
he not there has not be long , the my alive , he not there was not the distinction between the citizenship British and the citizenship Canadian , the the Canadian sovereignty the the Canada has d?coul? the one status of the dominion .
in the the human black the the view of the and the the summer high until the the age of 13 years , the Barbade , in the Antilles similarities and the the d?m?nag? the the Canada , I have lived this little experience .
the the years , later , after the right to the as English - which British alive the the Quebec , I do would never a true Qu?b?coise , I have left the Quebec to the Ontario , the the fact , I , r?fugi?e the home the " rubber laine the .
i believe firmly that the " sape my heritage and that I must the make concerns and the defence .
honourable senators , it is the people to the country , there was the the ministers , pr?conisent the dismantling of the monarchy constitutional the the Canada .
i drain the threats constitutional the d?molition the the Canada .
they insofar a circumstance outlawing democratic and grass the the supreme the the aristocratie , but they call the vote of the principle of the democracy is superficiel , rhetoric and very transparent .
they arise the absolutisme the the public , the the the employee of the former absolutisme the the blind , the in the deliberate disregard the the absolutisme present the the Cabinets and the the courts of " era modern .
these d?molisseurs are in the Canadian Tax spark and moral .
they induisent the public , believe that the the Canada . the ever had the aristocratie or the structure policy aristocratique .
the Canadian difference of the the the motion of the the U - Parliamentary , the aristocratie not the ever . the Canadian the structure social , economic , military or political the the Canada .
the Canada , as new peuplement , not the ever known of the social the people resulted the creation of instrument aristocratiques .
the Canada . the ever got the conditions pre the the institution . the principle aristocratique , the the principle h?r?ditaire him , England the the exposure of the Canadian the primog?niture , or poss?d? the structure aristocratique necessary to ensure the protection of the people and the the foreign , the Canadian protection of the life and the Canadian freedom assured by the aristocrate the the vassaux the generous the their loyalty and the people in the
the the U - Parliamentary , this structure aristocratique and political , hydro the not to the years of the time to a government with responsibility initiated , relieving the the Canada has passed as the beginning of the history , the through the the system of the parties political .
my culture policy . done . the monarchy constitutional and the the institutions parliamentarians similarities the people , the the Antilles similarities the most bitter legislatures legislation . the Universe the Canadian law started .
these institutions parliamentarians . led to the removal of the trade , the esclaves the 1807 and the the removal of the birthdays proprement that the 1833 .
the part essential to a government 1939 responsible for the Parliament of the Queen is the duty of the cabinet the Queen Majesty the same , with the confidence the the Parliament , the the solutions political , the legal , reckless or clothing the Canadian and problems and the Canadian and conflict human .
the political is the right to the most of the problems .
the art of the political is the most of contribution of our system British .
the political , the motion also recommend and to the the appointments and the the motto political .
honourable senators , the Barbade is a concrete thinks the the legislative legislation , the the summer established in 1639 , is the most former the the foreign the the U Kingdom
it much deep with the French Haiti and prisoners the Spanish , the are all of the the sovereign and all of the the Belgian not similarities .
i am very passion the the Parliament of the Queen and not want to any institution r?publicaine to the Canada .
i do none not the the " I , to the the Canada . r?publique .
i am , opposerai , the as I have sworn the the make .
the Canadian . the not least free or less independent that the citizens of the important what r?publique .
this is a real tragedy that the the schools , the the institutions political and , particularly , the many politicians sign the preserve the wonderful heritage constitutional the the Canada .
some have said that is the appalling to a country .
honourable senators , I , just now , the prerogative of the Queen respect to the basis , is the spirituality the the reconnaissances , the the unending , the the Ordre and the the skin .
this is the former prerogative of the souverains that the spirituality the the unending the people issues .
inversement , the citizens of the Canadian , in the foundation - and the right to receive the the unending the Canadian the Canadian and Sovereign .
in addition , the Canadian , resident in the other countries have the right to be privileged by the sovereign of these countries .
in the Canadian Republic sovereignty and citizenship , these Canadians have a " the benefits .
it is vital in this era of globalization , the Canadian political foreign the country government has seconded drew .
the desire to the human the be privileged by the other human to the the achievements community , such as it is expressed by a recognition of the sovereign , is powerful , calling and a .
all those who is the distinguished the Canadian scene policy , in the industry , in the Council , in the community , in the service military , by the the actions of brave and the all the issues of the service public servants . desire universal the the human the not to the one with his brothers and sister human .
such is the prerogative Royal , the soup the protection this aspect of the nature human and the the college .
our Sovereign indications a relationship special with each of the issues .
the subject , in order to this relationship special , the right to the justice , the the indulgence , the Canadian aid , the Canadian protection and the Canadian peace - the Queen .
this is that the temperatures the lexique .
this right result of this relationship special of the Queen and every the the issues .
this relationship is creations and deep personal because the it is ancr?e in a belief and a ideal the the Order God , the Queen and the nation .
honourable senators , excusez - I would I do I do . the distinction between the pure ambition human the , the avidit? the and need human the approval by the Sovereign , the Source the the Ordre to the contributions to the well common .
i wanted to d?sirs honourable to the the unending .
honourable senators , I speak now , the resolution Nickle , the the summer proposed by William Folger Nickle , MP Conservative the Kingston , and agreed to the House of the House of 18 May 1919 .
this motion , a motion of the House of the House only to appeal to Her Majesty George V , not the ever been Before the the agr?ment the the Senate .
the reasons political are clear and evident .
it would have a no doubt battue the strongest couture because the the honourable have gone before the Resolution policy and constitutional .
in addition , it is rallies to Her Majesty , and the " the Governor General of the Canada , the was then the Duke of Devonshire .
it asked to Her Majesty the not . honour to the Canadian and the Athens , in substance , as follows :
we ... - ... Passover supplied Your Majesty , requesting that he was Your :
the motion of the doubt multilateral the private the the skin the honour to the distinction the somewhat a the answer issues domicili?s or resident of average , the Canada ... - ...
b ) the it make the government to the legislation or other , for the the gerrymandering the the skin , dignit?s , Ordre - the Canadian fine the the blind by the - to the Late the one person is domicili?e the the Canada or with his residence usual , the it removes the one as Doctorate h?r?ditaire ... - ...
honourable senators , 10 years , later , in 1929 , the Commons . the one another debate on the resolution Nickle .
the 12 February 1929 , Charles Cahan , MP Conservative , the proposed the Senate set a committee Special the Canadian House of the inquiry and report on the desirability of either , change or rescinder the question Nickle agreed . Instead May 1919 .
the Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King the said in the debate , as the protracted the Debates of the House of the House of the Order - that the Canadian page 78 :
if we vote of the not have the skin Doctorates , the plight of distinction or the motto to the Canada , regardless tackle the the principle and not in 1975 not the the first , abolissons - and completely ; but if the souverains or the leaders of the United are permitted to spirituality the the unending the Canadian and Canadians , I believe , as the I , the us we to our own sovereign of the region . prerogative before all the other .
the results of the vote on the 14 February the Canadian motion Mr. Cahan indicate that the Prime Minister King and the Opposition the the Opposition conservatrice , Mr. Richard B . Bennett , they have two voted Right .
... the government . Her Majesty the the Canada is the opinion that the motion of the skin Doctorates agreed . Instead May 1919 , by a vote of the majority of the House of the House of the thirteenth Parliament ( a pioneer dissousle 4 October 1921 ) . makes no Majesty Majesty or the government . Her Majesty the the Canada , or the ten - Seventh Parliament of the Canada .
in the other words , the text the " the sovereign , by the way of a resolution of the House of the House , the closure of commissioners his prerogative the the Canada .
no task of appreciation . " to the Canadian the , in the .
the only to the one has the , but , I regret to have the Canadian see , he found a injure the the sovereign the .
the the subject of the efforts in the Canadian back in effect of recommendations to Her Majesty the Canadian list of the motto , the Prime Minister , in the same words , the said : , the Canadian page 96 the the Hansard of the Commons :
this is that the act of the Prime Minister of the right to assume the responsibility ; it is also to the the Canadian Tobacco the have informed the Crown that the resolution passed by the House of the House of invalide and the authors the in the the Christian the prerogative of the sovereign .
is the motion expectation clear to my eyes .
honourable senators , the my opinion , the distinguished Canadian , is pressenti to be appointed to the House of the Lords the the U - Parliamentary or any Canadian pressenti by Her Majesty the Queen to a recognition whatever the honour to the Canada .
each time that a Canadian is honoured , the motion of a guest to me .
this is a great honour to us all .
the Canada . individual grew .
i , just now Mr. Black Black .
honourable senators , recently , the the levy the words , Lord Almost the and the Lord Nearly Nearly the to d?crireM. Conrad Black .
i know that the distinction between the the motion . and the the motion ridiculous .
i know that the distinction between the criticism approach and a critical demeaning .
the matrimonial Black is a man rich , some find it . the cover the contempt as the the was unresponsive .
i believe Mr. Black Black is a great and distinguished Canadian .
the world Mr. Black not . not the hall .
this is the not a world in which I have worked .
the world . the Canadian the high due the the " makes the tremendous risk financial - the world . the entrepreneuriat , the Canadian competition , the the trade and the Canadian production of 47 .
this is a world that I respect , the so I do . I do directly m?l?e .
i am a Liberal , a Liberal , the meaning classic the the century century .
the lib?ralisme I was conditioned to meet the people who aspire the fleet to the jobs , royalties and the the jobs for the other people .
the lib?ralisme I was conditioned that the Employment the people , the business private by No the the area public is the true the Canadian the repository economic the one community .
honourable senators , the bandwagon the area that the most of contribution to the world that the excluded the lib?ralisme , in the the principle policy , was the concept that the repository could be created and shared by all the individual , the Canadian Airborne the Canadian exports and the fact , the FTQ not , not subject to the principle of the h?r?dit? , but rather , the ability , the spirit of this , the energy and the effort to each be human .
the parcours Mr. Black , the motion unborn in a community modest , a one daring to the lib?ralisme and the principle Liberal .
the same , the lib?ralisme , by No the the disaster , to the price that the governments governments on the market , only to protect the life , the integrity and the Competition , but also to give a net of security social the the workers .
Mr. . Black the fund . the Employment to the the thousands of Canadians , the the little of people can the remainder .
i respect that the
he has also allowed to the , the Canadian the Competition Act , domestic the the newspapers , the Canada .
i am the opinion that is the one grandfather to the Canada , the Prime Minister Tony Blair , the the U - Parliamentary , the recommendation of appointing Mr. Black the Canadian House of the Lords , the CHST the fine and the Lord not h?r?ditaire .
he is unfortunate that the Prime Minister Blair that order to Recommendation and I hope that he songera soon . subscribe the recommendation Mr. Black .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
senator Cools , I must you wish to the period of time , you . leave to do you owe is gone .
however , you sell continue to you , requesting the authority and that the - the honourable is leave .
the senator Cools :
thank , Your Honour .
i wish to the authority to continue .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
the authority is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Cools :
thank , honourable senators ,
the barons the Canadian News Lord Thompson bearer Black are all the two honour to the Canada , the as the former prime minister John Turner .
they witnessing all of the trade , the years of the centuries , the fishing the Canadian and Canadians and the Canadian and Britanniques , the I - the , black and black , the Senate in the two Houses of the Parliament , the the Canada and London Kingdom
honourable senators , the attitudes and the tabloid human are myst?rieuses , the as the fragilit? human .
it is part of the condition human .
the spirit human is a roublard and the motivator the height .
this et the Canadian condition human I was the separation of the poignante in a section of the lowest and the m?chancet? Mr. Nickle , the the summer prepared by a member of the family , James Travers .
in a section The in the road the the 14 September 1998 , the Toronto Star and the myth the Canadian battle Mr. Black to the Anglican the the CHST the fine , Mr. Travers wrote :
in a lack of despite and the the absence of the Prime Minister of the time , Robert Border , Nickle the report , the steamship his resolution to the House of the House after the defeat the make conferring the CHST the Knight the Daniel Denise , the University of the University Queen ' and the finest - Polish -
the the venger , Nickle the chair the government that the other . be not get it is the one refused to his family .
the resolution urging the the king the abstienne the spirituality the the skin the Canadian and residents Canadian . was passed by the Canadian House emport?e by the opinion public that he not partageait not .
the tricherie the Nickle is the case of a number embarrassment in the family , since W . F . Nickle was the finest - Polish the Canadian s9ur the question . - far .
the Honourable Joan Fraser :
honourable senators , I have a question to question and , if the senator Cools I , the , a rectification the changes .
i do think that the anyone can deny the achievements Mr. Black in the area of the road .
however , if you ?tudiez the United financial the the business . the control , you find that the number of jobs . decreased and the increased in the newspapers that he failed , since the the in the fact , upgraded .
my question to the nature of the Ordre that , the following the senator , he would appropriate that the the Canadian newspapers the Canadian the Canadian governments foreign .
he is the one difference between the Ordre archaic Doctorates , as the CHST the Knight or the Friends of honour , and those who are the one of the longer a l?gislateur the one country abroad .
the House of the Lords . the legislative legislation .
it is the person - be not as the power to our Senate , but we are worthy , conniving to the the the not . not a thing futile that the be l?gislateur .
the Honourable Senator broad - it is difference between the two types of distinction and that it is it is the place . the necessity differently , the the the one cinquantaine the years . past years , a person active in the area Canadian of the media , agreed to dignity of hand ?
i draw the example Mr. Kenneth Thompson has found rodents the frustration the CHST the Hon. father , the Late the Lord Thompson .
the senator Cools :
i thank the Honourable Senator the the question .
in the the concerns of environmental and the governments foreign , I wish to make the I do as the Canadian Queen of England as a government foreign .
i do back too insist that the above .
it is the Queen of the Canada , my Queen .
when I have the my into the the Senate . 1984 , after the summer escort?e the long - that care , I have the Canadian labour the Canadian Bible and I have sworn oath , and the motion to this Queen that I have sworn the Place of allegiance .
the Queen of the Canada . is not a government foreign .
i have the - be wrong before the comments of the Honourable Senator .
if the motion of the , I , takes grateful the changes to other Particulars .
the the unending are powers . the time .
he is the Canadian and Canadians who heads in the the Bloc raced across the the world .
the Honourable Senator the previous will the one meeting of the IPU , the reason we have attended every the two , there has some months , and the I have met the the citizens Canadian , members of the the Bloc raced the some countries baltes , I believe .
the House of the Lords . a parliament , not a legislative legislation , and the , the one huge difference between the legislative legislation and a parliament .
the House of the Lords . the old institution .
it is a the the most ancient the the world .
this is the - be the the many of my friends families have served in the House of the Lords , but I appartiens the the group of the Canadian , paying . the respect to this chamber .
the " the inequities , when I was small daughter , the Canadian Barbade , the when the the rest the defeat , he maintained , the possibility of the call the Canadian House of the Lords .
i do realize not to the movement the would be the " it strove to zero deadline the Houses proudly , there was the House of the Lords .
finally , for the the motion of the unending , I say that they are countless .
he is the Canadian and opened the disbanding of the skin and the other . .
he is the Canadian and opened the jurisdiction of the primacy , the other . .
he is the Canadian and opened the disbanding a diplomat , the other . .
he is the entire a range of environmental .
i urge the senator to the meaningful the I , comes a proposal to the the study of the skin Doctorates and the eligibility of the Canadian , these headlines .
in this era modern the the " authority to the skin h?r?ditaires , I do think that the Queen Majesty authority too , titles h?r?ditaires the the Canada .
i do I do managed to the same the new .
i have enumerated a number civilians the skin the chevaliers in my remarks .
the examples the " are immediately came to the spirit are obviously Lord Thompson , the same and , the course , the former - Prime Minister of the Canada , Mr. R . B . Bennett , the , as we , we , the summer appointed vicomte the 1941 .
clearly , the embrouille the things .
the fact is Mr. Black the summer recommended for the U the life and the the is , the I , the one man aspiration .
( the Canadian motion of the senator LeBreton , the debate is adjourned . )
business foreign
leave to the committee , clerical the the services
the Honourable John B . Stewart , pursuant to the moved 2 November 99 , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian and business foreign the technical , clerical and services of counsel , clerical , clerical the board or other elements necessary to examine the bills of the , the substance of the Canadian law and the Estimates budget , he have been providing .
( the motion is agreed . )
leave to the committee , to broadcast the deliberations , the media of information electronic
the Honourable John B . Stewart , pursuant to the moved 2 November 99 , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian and business foreign the technical , to the heading the the deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible . the .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate . adjourned . the traditional 16 November 99 , the 14 at the motion
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 7
the traditional 16 November 99
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the dumping
Maxwell Tabled '
the Act , 1968 amend the right p?nal
the trenti?me anniversary of the adoption
the Reverend father Emile Shoufani
the group of expert on the access to the data historic the the census
the Act , the Official Languages
the trenti?me anniversary of the Recognition
the program of free of pages with the House of the House
business routine
the budget of the Estimates , 1999 - 2000
tabling of the budget Supplementary ( A )
the community French and acadiennes out Quebec
tabling of the report on the seriousness of the services in French
the adjournment
the budget of the Estimates , 1999 - 2000
notice of Motion During the committee , the Finance Finance to study of budget Supplementary ( A )
notice of Motion to Committee of the credit 25a the the committee Joint Committee of the Official Languages
notice of Motion to Committee of the credit 10a the the committee Joint Committee of the Library of the Parliament
business foreign
notice of Motion During the committee to stand the date of closer the Hon. the final the Canadian amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty the the Atlantic North
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Solicitor General
the Biohazard Canadian of the security of security , The loss of documents classifi?s - Conformity the Canadian the committee , training the the activities of the security of security
the justice
the possibility of protecting more the people , the violence
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis crop to the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan - Government Position of a program of credit crop
the Program of the in the Canadian origin related to the income crop - Conformity effectiveness of the program
the effectiveness of the program of the - Government survival of the young farmers
the crisis crop to the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan - Conformity Program of the in the Canadian origin related to the income crop - Effect we fail to the applicants
the crisis crop to the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan - Request for visiting the the Prime Minister
the Environment
the Nova Scotia Nova Scotia - fault of the contaminated the the sites of pollutants sites - Request for Answer
the National Defence
the replacement of the helicopters Sea King - Government Position of the credit , Donkin - Request for Answer
answers delayed the Canadian and the control
the Defence down
the West Power Regiment - Government appointment of a Colonel honorary
the business foreign
the new ambassador the Canadian the Organization World of the trade , The of the one contract the consultation with the employer the the former ambassador - Request for Tabling of documents
the United Human
the disarmament nuclear - Government Policy the the government side , the resolution of the York Agenda Coalition
the development of the resources human
the efforts efforts to increase the regions of the minority visible
on business orders
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
second reading of Debate the the debate
bill to the Canadian 99 to the implementation of the Canadian taxation tax
second reading of Second the the debate
the speech , the Throne
motion of the Canadian the Adresse the answer to Continued the the debate
bill to the Act , Assent Royal
second reading of Second the the debate
the communities French and acadiennes out Quebec
the seriousness of the services in French - Inquiry - Adjourned the the debate
the Senate
the traditional 16 November 99
the Chair . Chair . p.m. at the the Speaker , the the Chair .
prayers .
the Act , 1968 amend the right p?nal
the trenti?me anniversary of the adoption
the Honourable Lucie pin :
honourable senators , the the Canadian and the health , that we or not , the adoption , the 14 May 1969 , the Canadian Act , 1968 amend the right p?nal , the l?gif?rait the Canadian contraception and the abortion hindsight , the irr?vocablement changed our lives .
the complications for the accouchements not , not uncommon , and only the case of the serious the terminaient by a trajet the Canadian fortune back to the voiture the the doctor from the the hospital the most humane and often , he was too late to save the b?b? or to practise a c?sarienne .
the main - the donor , the b?b? or the mother ?
the state , was very clear : the contraception was ill?gale , the same that the abortion .
the " the state and the the Church , the women . the no alternative .
the many of the us who worked , gyn?co - obst?trique , the status quo was much memoranda and we have decided to work in favour of the change for the " and women the access to the contraception .
the bill to the C - 150 , the known the the name of the bill to the planning to the the summer adopted . 1969 .
he has done . the the things for a myriad of people .
the frustration the " the the former prime minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau , he has continued the process default the bouter the state out of the Houses the late the the people .
the Presbyterian sexual , the choice of accounting the fetus and the ?bats amoureux were the footnotes the the area private , the condition that this is it . adults consentants .
the the women , the prospects linking were coming the great .
he was now that the make the the choice .
the women acqu?raient finally , repatriated the control the their own life , which is the nicotine , the one series battle of grossesses , the risk for the health and the children too many of their test financial .
this new freedom . served the Information to the many other Freedoms and options the people amended the role of the women in our society : the high the virtues , the education , the Employment , a vote , the chapter and the reality .
honourable senators , I am very proud of the same to the the process and the have been pleased to real change the the are op?r?s through the our efforts of the the Editor the Canadian , if openness and if necessary .
he is a that the one of the business of the important to my life .
the important , the this fiftieth prove a time , the the the change . an , the the people can amend the the things in the life of volunteers and that the determination and the passion can do the the memories .
fiftieth . and cooperation tribute to all the citizens . the working in the ?closion the the liberties arising the the bill to the C - 150 .
the Reverend father Emile Shoufani
the Honourable Pierre De Ban :
honourable senators , I have the honour to you do the Canadian the visit recent the the Canada , Stanley the the 25 October , the the Reverend father Emile Shoufani , Director of the seminary St. - Joseph and the the school school of Nazareth , and cur? the Nazareth , in Israel .
the father Shoufani , famili?rement called Abouna Emile by all , the " father Emile the in Arab , is a man and a priest deeply committed in the Church , the Church melkite Greeks Catholic , in his community Arab and the Hon. the , Israel .
the father Shoufani was the the Canada . invited the the Centre of action voluntary ?milie Gamelin the Joliette , the one organized a forum international the " and unwelcome the Canadian life and the ageing the , Mavis the the attention of Dreadnought many and the the summer a great success , all respects .
i wish to thank the members of the clerg? , the not have physically no effort to the this visit the couronn?ede success .
during his visit to the Canada , the father Shoufani the in the the talks approfondis with a if a number of leading the the " is impossible to the appointment all .
i am limiterai the highlight the meetings with the personalities following : the Prime Minister of the Canada , the very hon. Jean Chr , the Speaker of the Senate , the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , the Minister of the Foreign Affairs , the Honourable Lloyd Axworthy , the officials officials of the Council Office , the the Department of the Prime Minister , and that the diplomats the the Department of the Foreign Affairs did the the Middle - East .
the father Shoufani the well speech , emphasize the Canadian the " the Middle - East , including the the Middle East Discussion Group , this same the the Parliament , and that the the Council of the relationship international the Montreal .
he has also issue of the issues proprement church , including the " the future common the the Christian , the the musulmans and the the Jewish the , the the University St. - Paul the Ottawa and the Canadian community of Madonna performed the Combermere , in Ontario , the the the Solicitor the former Archbishop of Galil?e , Mgr Joseph Raya , a man Lorne that I admire greatly .
the father Shoufani the well met the Archbishop of St. - Boniface , Mgr Antoine Hacault , and that the ?v?que the Joliette , Mgr Gilles Lussier .
the one of the times the most ?mouvants the fault no doubt the Canadian meeting of the father Shoufani with the very amending Elliott Trudeau , the former prime minister of the Canada , the the domin? the scene policy of our country over the Canadian years .
this meeting , the place to the time o?M. Trudeau performs ses80 years .
the father Shoufani not the aisles of work , r?concilier and the meaningful all the citizens of the country , Israel .
as the the Solicitor in our country . , many of Canadians , which Arab , particularly those of Montreal and the Ottawa .
he has also met a leading packed the Canadian community Jewish Canadian , and that the Congress Jewish , prepared to the Quebec , and the the record visit to the school s?farade the language French - Montreal , the school Maimonide .
this is my is the most admirable the the father Shoufani , the motion that the deep respect to the life . " be dissoci? the the conviction that the us we are strive the latest the fate of all the ones human and that one . the the right to offence of the suffering the the other .
the approach positive the the father Shoufani the federal - settlement of the problems . remarkable .
the - the motion . This the make the Prime not .
he is committed to the understanding of dreams and the ideas of the other and the sting of the reader the their the .
the Hon. the Speaker :
senator De Ban , your three minutes are minute .
farming - you the authority to continue ?
the senator De Ban :
yes .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the authority is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator De Ban :
honourable senators , Emile Shoufani is unborn the Nazareth the GATT .
in the the beauty of origin Arab in the state of Israel , Emile Shoufani the past 52 years , demonstrates , in his life and the work , the the motion that the end of term , the the centuries of Opposition and the violence .
the life is a testament to the coexisting peaceful the the Jewish , the the Arabes , the the musulmans and the the Christian in a region , the desperately need to a model of peace and the reconciliation .
Emile Shoufani the learned the the inclusion of famine personal the meaning real the the shirts and the the respect to the other .
he is a model for all .
the great - Polish and the Michaud the summer killed during the war the 1948 , the Canadian the d?portation the villageois the Eilabun .
the great - far , the the lost his father and a son , the inequities the shirts the Hon. small - son .
he has grew to the public . the minority Arab the motion busting in the new Crown the Israel .
the difficulties concerning the the have to the " the years of this period of the life have provided to Emile that the elements is a consequence , but not the poverty .
rebel during his guide to the seminary St. - Joseph , Emile prit deeply conscience of the value of the life . in ressentant the need to do a difference .
he d?cida the full priest .
while the the vivait the Paris , the 1964 the 1971 , the Canadian , the the students in Tokyo and trained , Emile Shoufani the third Treblinka , by Jean - Fran?ois Steiner .
it . the leading to the reverse more on the Holocaust , the visit Dachau and the motion income , he , the blood a changing spiritual , in the one point of the first , the different .
ordered priest the the Church Catholic Greeks the 1971 , he has said : in the Prime sermon :
the early the the years of the Department , in the the pasteur the various villages the Galil?e , Abouna Emile is much appreciated as a m?diateur , not only to the Order of the differences between the communities religious Christian , mulsumane and druze , but the so that causes advocate of a real coexisting default , just the living Coast the West , but the truly share a life common .
when the ?v?que the the grain the leadership of the seminary and accommodation school snow - Joseph , in 1976 , Abouna Emile the was already win the confidence the all the people of the region .
the fact that the many parents of many communities religious the confient their child shows the magnitude of the confidence and the the respect to the the motion win in the inner .
in 1976 , the seminary snow - Joseph the 200 brilliant and was the the point of close .
the father Emile the announcement of challenges the challenge , the attempt to maintain the school Chair with a way stipulates by the faith .
he has tried to enable two objectives .
he is a . the first , replicating the snow - Joseph a school of the classroom successful to the awards .
he has reported sensibilis? a new generation of students , their stories and identit?s separate , the in obtenant the their share a commitment total the the respect to their mental the the state of Israel .
the first battle the consist? the attention of staff qualified and dynamic partageant his vision that the the school must not only ?duquer , but also expand the Canadian Human , the the editorship the so that one way to the Prime the " .
the second achievement r?volutionnaire the consist? the Use the school in a settlement Joint open to all the religions , the the two sexes and the various crops .
the the "
snow - Joseph not . not a school Christian the magnitude of musulmans and the druzes , but a school the the Christian , the musulmans and the druzes live the .
the police with the body professoral , Emile Shoufani top time to achieve the the standards of post high .
here is that " the father Shoufani :
we must own the 20 per the 30 per academic Arab the the country . need .
ninety years , later , the school is the extent of support the Competition the the best schools in Israel .
today , the the school the 1 200 brilliant and , each year , the 120 ?130 brilliant the the two sexes receive their school .
Emile Shoufani applaud , the same vigour r?volutionnaire that he is the 24 years .
he continues to the morosity the the appointments to the steering and the the board of the Canadian the school .
in 1989 , after the investigator the point strong and the calumny the the school the the plan school , the father Emile the announcement of the palliative the Hon. second thoughting , the one bill , Malaysia the dialogue with the " Lyada the , a school Jewish the Prime the relevant to the university Hebrew the Jerusalem , to the " to the our young the tools the people have the to ensure their full accessibility in the state of Israel , in conservant their identity . "
today , the Canadian mission of the seminary snow - Joseph is the government grant to education . the service of the peace , the
the father Shoufani the said repeatedly :
i believe numbered the the country . the history long and vari?e , in quality of Arabe , the beauty and the Isra?lien .
these differences not me pose not the problems .
the " I reflected , I have a vision Universal I express the transcender the limits firms and the best hear my brothers .
in closing , I add that the father Shoufani was informed during his visit in our country by Ms Soad Haddad , the I have the privilege of the years , the ten years . L
Soad Haddad is magnificent in the extent the , as the it can the memory , it has always revived that it exists more to the great community human that the one family particular .
the existence the ever been for the tort the the feeling of the in Bosnia .
this is that the the the workers to the Bar completely to the the palliative the the tasks current .
it works Coast the West with the father Emile been more of 20 years , the service of the Church melkite and the Canadian community Arab the the state of Israel .
section that , honourable senators , we have anything two options .
the one is the press the the differences between the ones human , the the motion easy .
we can see the list conflict tragic that the appropriateness .
the other , the the contrary , is the end of talk the the the closest the people of various groups socio?conomiques , the religions separate and the the background different .
this is much more difficult .
however , the motion . no doubt the option the most generous , the best solution to the time modern and the to the all the people . define should be boxing .
this is the seaway that the parents of the father Shoufani the people enseign?e , the the the the guided . " the long - his life .
he is rare the meeting of Human as the father Shoufani , launched the one such vision and the one such courage .
this was a great honour to me , the am unborn in the country , the the cloud , the Hon. tireless , the very competent her Soad Haddad , during their visit to the Canada .
the group of expert on the access to the data historic the the census
the Honourable Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the great pleasure , bring the attention of this chamber on a message the recent by the Honourable John Manley , Minister of the Industry and Minister responsible for Statistics Canada .
Friday the , the Minister Manley has announced the creation of a group of expert on the access to the data historic the the census .
the group of the will report , the Minister of this , 31 May 2000 and recommend a approach allowing the establishing a fair community of the need to protect the life private and the CCN the access to the genealogists , historians and archivists the the data historic the census .
as the honourable senators , knowing , I have the pressure to the Parliament , the meaning it is the date , the one year .
i am looking that the Minister that the one approach achieving the the respect to this issue and that appointed to the Canadian experts composed of five and constructive respected , the country former colleague , the Honourable Lorna Marsden .
he is the hope that is taking presents the the average innovative to succeed a pleasure compromise between the imperatives of the protection of the life private and those of the newly the the Heritage Canada .
the Minister Manley has been responsive to my representations ; it has made the paying the Canadian correspondence the the genealogists , historians and archivists Canadian , and the just the other , first the to respond to our concerns , including the Tobacco . group .
this is that the negotiation of the work accomplished by the Friends of La and the genealogists the people sensibilis? the opinion public , the question and the people of the sincerity the opinion .
i am impatiente the other , the the report that is taking we will the Canadian new year .
the Act , the Official Languages
the trenti?me anniversary of the Recognition
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , I wish to the trenti?me anniversary of the Act , the Official Languages , the Canadian proclamation the in the the 1 July 1969 .
this bill , the motion seconded by a great majority of Canadians , the fishing the work of the progress the the public . the basis public , the the the policy , the language of the and the Canadian representation fair .
he is that recognize that he we have a the path to achieve the the the the policy , the language of the .
he I must point , for me to success of the bill , the contribution is the the Commissariat the the Official Languages , the the Commissioners the the , are having and the the committee Joint Committee on the Official Languages the Canadian House of the House and the the Senate .
i ask the all the Canadian of up to meet this extraordinary characteristic of the country . is the linguistic duality .
the Act , the Official Languages provides the the English and the the French their status , their rights and Orders of the the Official the the Parliament and the the government . the Canada .
the provinces are invit?es the be noticed to the minority language .
some of acknowledgement the people of a means , the other . the advantage of francophile .
i am well aware of the new efforts to be a career for protecting the equity linguistic across the the country and the , in the spirit and the letter of the bill and , particularly , in the respect to the legislation which we govern .
the program of free of pages with the House of the House
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , before the move the Canadian next , tabled the the Order of the Order , I wish you to the pages who have b?n?fici? the the program of free of pages and the us from the Canadian House of the House .
Rachelle B?dard at the Science political , the Faculty of the Science Social the the University of Ottawa .
it is native of fire , the the Quebec .
marie - Claire Raymond is Erin the Penetanguishene , in Ontario .
marie - Claire goes the the students , the Faculty of Science Social the the University of Ottawa and the the sp?cialiser the Science policy and the Spanish .
business routine
the budget of the Estimates , 1999 - 2000
tabling of the budget Supplementary ( A )
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . tabled the Estimates Supplementary ( A ) the the fiscal the closing the 31 March 2000 .
the community French and acadiennes out Quebec
tabling of the report on the seriousness of the services in French
the Honourable Jean - Maurice Simard :
honourable senators , I wish to the report , the state of the structure , climate now opposite , the - raising the development and the francophone the the communities French and acadiennes , the Canadian deteriorating crushing , the the d?sengagement the the governments to the years of the 10 years in the Canadian the loss of accessibility to the services in French .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I do I do agree the tabling of a document the one senator to the Canadian a unanimous consent of the government . the Senate .
is the the the the , the consent unanimous ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the adjournment
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the article 58 ( 1 ) at ) the the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate . stand today , the the remaining adjourned until the near , the 1998 17 November 99 , the 13 at 1:30 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
the budget of the Estimates , 1999 - 2000
notice of Motion During the committee , the Finance Finance to study of budget Supplementary ( A )
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the mercredi17 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian and money Finance be authorized to study , to the in the report , the Estimates expenditures in the Estimates Supplementary ( A ) the the fiscal the closing the 31 March 2000 , the the exception of the credit 10a the the Parliament and the the credit 25a the the Council Office .
notice of Motion to Committee of the credit 25a the the committee Joint Committee of the Official Languages
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 58 ( 1 ) f ) the the Rules , I move :
that the committee Joint Committee of the Official Languages be authorized to study of spending expenditures the the credit 25a the the Council Office content in the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A ) , for the fiscal the closing the 31 March 2000 ; and
that a message be restored to the House of the House of the in the .
notice of Motion to Committee of the credit 10a the the committee Joint Committee of the Library of the Parliament
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the mercredi17 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Joint Committee of the Library of the Parliament , though the study of spending expenditures the the credit 10a the the Parliament Vote in the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A ) the the fiscal the closing the 31 March 2000 ; and
that a message be restored to the House of the House of the in the .
business foreign
notice of Motion During the committee to stand the date of closer the Hon. the final the Canadian amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty the the Atlantic North
the Honourable John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the 1998 17 November 99 , I move :
that , by terrorism the the Order adopted by the Senate . Thursday p.m. October 1998 , the Committee on the Canadian and business foreign , though the review the in the report of Korea to the Canada : 1 ) . the Canadian amendment brought to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty the the Atlantic North ( NATO ) and the the role of the Canada in the NATO been the disbanding of the tremendous the Warsaw , the Canadian reseller the Canadian War cold and the the coming recent in the NATO the Canadian Hungarian , the Canadian Poland and the Canadian Republic tch?que ; and 2 ) . the the peace - the peace , particularly the ability to the Canada . there to the the auspices of the important what body international the the Canada . the , the technical , to the report final the the most later , 15 December 1998 ; and
that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the premature the the results of the study contained in the report final , and the date , the 24 December 1998 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practical consequently , the table the report of the the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate . " no , and that obedience report be deposited have been tabled the the Senate .
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Solicitor General
the Biohazard Canadian of the security of security , The loss of documents classifi?s - Conformity the Canadian the committee , training the the activities of the security of security
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I have a question to the intent of the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the media across the the Canada . Eisenhower a unfortunate incident the one was victim a agente the the SCRS the one left a document to Issues secret the Canadian fortune back to his voiture , the it oblige the one of the hockey the Toronto .
the Minister could the the us that what was the backlog of security passion the the document ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I thank the Honourable Senator the this issue .
he has obviously , brought to the knowledge of the public by the media , and the Canadian , confirmed by the Minister of the House of the House , the one manquement enough serious the the protocol the safety the summer committed by a token the the SCRS .
the leadership of the SCRS examine the this matter .
as the Canadian rating the safety passion the the document , the , I raise determine whether I can obtain this information to the Honourable Senator .
the senator Kinsella :
i thank the Honourable Senator the the CCN to the make .
he is a the knowledge , the document was very secret , inside or posterity .
the Parliament , institu? the committee , training the the activities of the security of security .
the Parliament , the " is the Civil the mandate legal the person to operate the the SCRS .
is the the true that is the only by the seaway the the newspapers that the chairman of the CSARS the course of the the manquement , then , the Solicitor General in the in my long a number of the prior to the the newspapers not in their the ?
the senator Boudreau :
the honourable senators price that I do back to order how the inspecteur General of the SCRS the summer the " the armed the this matter , or how the CSARS the the summer .
however , the Minister has said , the other place . the in the summer informed the , the two or three weeks .
i think that he is enough clear that the CSARS the the summer informed that time , later .
in the , I can say , the honourable senators , the SCRS and the inspecteur General of the SCRS are the in this matter to the time when I would mean .
the most , the CSARS the the so busy a review the this regard to his own initiative .
as the honourable senators , I am anxious to obtain a report , the subject , and I am pleased to the make know the details .
the Honourable Jean - Claude Rivest :
the Minister could the the us that the the long a rule of the services surgical as the Canadian handling of the documents ?
is the the the one person or a officer the first simply the tour with the the documents ?
there is a procedure , not have motive not been followed in the case ?
the Minister of the the the government , essayera the make the to see what is the the motion of the
the Minister can the the be more arriving as the Canadian psyche the the inquiry . in the " is malencontreux incident ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , he is clear that he is the in offence to the safety .
the human , the will definitely the one of congratulation the Canadian , by the SCRS and the the CSARS .
as a the knowledge of the senator , the CSARS is the committee independent of oversight unto the the career this task .
i am sure that these two organizations . respective the people responsibilities with the Canadian expeditiously and the speed highway and that they chemically a report . detailed the the events who is the events .
the senator Rivest :
honourable senators , obviously , he is the Canadian and inconv?nients the the plan Economy .
the Canada and the Biohazard Canadian of the security of security Executive with the very large country . through the world .
the Minister and the government . - they know that this incident risk of entacher very seriously the credibility of the services surgical Canadian ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , happily , this incident that the incident .
the the the Senate unfortunate and that the not be denied the state of these events , I hope that they not have not the impact sensibles the our relations with the other countries , particularly our allies .
the senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , the Minister could the the us that it is the special two weeks transform the the Solicitor General for prevention the committee , the view of Minister , will now to the Act . the ?
why can the weeks ?
the , the the not a feeling of responsibility in the spirit of the disability when they are the " the armed the one case , the - the ?
the Parliament , created a committee studying the board on the kind of the and yet the Department of the Solicitor General has left tra?ner the things for two weeks transform .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I can do that the precise the Canadian . the the normal , I do know that sort when the information . was remaining .
however , I believe that the the inspecteur General of the SCRS the act the the case , personally and the in annoying as it . the .
the role of the motion of investigations on the the activities as those that exhibition the inspecteur General in the part of this matter .
i do know that sort the ones at the CSARS interviendrait .
the Honourable Roch Bolduc :
honourable senators , he is the few years , we have had the the problems , the one drain of the budget of the Minister of the Finance .
finally , the the world . " the armed and the Minister has had finished a speech quick .
there has the one point government , caring the terms of the documents ?
the the long a procedure , the it has degrees of quality ?
the example , we know , the the budget of the Minister of the Finance and the issues of security national are very surgical .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am sure that he is different classifications the safety to the documents the the SCRS .
i do know that the detail all the levels of security , but I will the my best to obtain the security for the senator .
the senator Bolduc :
honourable senators , I will get the Canadian Radio because the recent , we are we inherited that , the the subject of the sophisticated with the Americans in the Canadian Defence , the us were more or less fiables .
the Americans . would the transiger with us and we give some of the Canadian and equipment for the Defence because the us have the calumny the not be not enough fiables .
this is clumsily the the make that this by our neighbours , particularly when we seemed with them . good relationship in general .
the Minister could the the attention to the attention of the Minister of the National Defence this issue of the most horrific importance ?
we must be some other , the subject , you you imagine that a moment , not help not the relationship between our two of the
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am , the fact prepared to convey the concerns of the honourable as the Canadian psyche the this incident .
i Dolly the importance that aviation the honourable the this combination series of events .
however , I do I do some of shared the opinion expressed by the Honourable Senator in the preamble of the question .
the question of the ITAR the part of a class different .
he is certainly disturbing the plight that a line or a document sufficient not . not manipul? with all the cautions to the the vice the case for the document .
a commission is the years , husbands the Canadian , by the SCRS the the Internal and the the CSARS .
i am sure that the government corrective the the CWB will taken and that the human , because it dealt the way appropriate .
the justice
the possibility of protecting more the people , the violence
the Honourable Herbert O . Sparrow :
honourable senators , I have a question to question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the Canadian of the the country are concerned by the violence the the years of the young .
a place concern is a the image by a section the the summer released recently , a newspaper the Vancouver on the fact that a place , the saucissonnage the British - British the cost of life , a lady citizen .
he seems that these people . the way to the the protection against the crimes .
i do wish to the privilege of the Canadian the control of the weapons the gun , but it was a time when the community crop . prot?geait the the way of fusils the whaling .
the not to attaquait not to the farmers . fear of the offence .
the Code offence banned the the use of brouillard the poivre to the protection .
the people of the communities rural and , now , the people of the regions urban not have not the other means of the protection and they are absolutely terrifi?s by all these stories of saucissonnage , the effraction , the rape and the murder the people benefits to the
if the Minister . does not the matter to the moment , the - be the - the in the with his colleagues , including the Minister of the Justice .
the the government . - they are up , the biological to the people of the clothes the weakness the the protection they , the ?
the Canadian and people . the not the average of entourer their companies , cl?tures or the have the the workings of security .
these people are left to the - the and they are the victims of the offender the country from the
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the problems optimistic by the senator Sparrow we doing all of indignation .
the Code offence the " and court of the person . discovered to the authors of these crimes .
i understand however , clause concerns the the senator .
the problem has the - be in the " the evolution of the relationship shaped , the the years of the past decades .
the one time , a family rural or barley could be full a family extended , if the the the people seniors were less often livr?es the provinces , the , far the the other members of the family .
this is a given the but I believe that , if we comparions the situation exists the same the the , the 30 years , we constaterions that he is the day , and the Canadian people seniors who live only to the place . to the Canadian a family extended .
the protection that the senator to the person - be , for this only because , the necessary to our attendance .
i have made my the data statistics that have the number of offending violent would the Canadian drop in the whole of the people .
he is still , these responses the one look critical , but it is some of the to the victims agress?es the provinces , particularly when he is a the people seniors , the problem until serious .
i will certainly do the " my colleagues , the cabinet the the concerns and the Canadian . the the Honourable Senator .
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis crop to the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan - Government Position of a program of credit crop
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , I wish question to the Leader of the government to the Senate . the Act , Asian crop , the ages the compound the Order of the .
the 2,500 November 99 , I have asked to the Minister if the government was prepared to make the the rate of the credit crop to the coming to help to some farmers who are unable to carry their debts .
the Leader of the government . the Senate . P . welcome my suggestion , in stating , the the issues were already the subject of discussions , but that he not joining not dealing the terms of the cabinet .
as the " , the the stadium - the , the the the government has the intent of the in the the concerns of credit crop ?
is the one area where the government would give the example , the Banking and the the pools the credit .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I regret to the power to the answer to specific to the time .
since the last time that we have spoken this issue , the government , the Donkin a significant Supplementary the 170 million . $ the the program ACRA to the quality of the bank to the farmers .
the the time , that , we do did not to the fair how McGrath respond to governments provincial .
we do did not to the run the remuneration their share , 65 to 40 per - that amount , the government , stimulates 60 per - and the , as it . was the to the program drafted .
the least , the situation that change recently , the " the Prime that the provinces . the not accept the remuneration , the money .
the governments of the Saskatchewan and the the Manitoba have all of that record that they refusaient the increase in contributions financial .
the Honourable Senator know that the be the Canadian the the ground has .
i have the the difficulty the understanding that response .
the two premiers ministers provincial and came to Ottawa to describe the state of the situation and the need to a balancing immediate .
in the , the the years of the few five years in the the assistance to the two governments provincial and leave to their farmers . was significantly reduced .
when they have required with insistance that the government , ruined , he has paid 170 million . $ in the program .
this is the person - be not . the the the farmers wished , but it was personally a measure positive .
however , he seems that the implications of the governments of the Manitoba and the Canadian Saskatchewan have suggested to wanting .
the senator Gustafson :
honourable senators , the Minister . does not to my question to the subject of the credit crop , the motion of responsibility of the government , the
this responsibility . is not shared with the governments provincial .
he is a the fund arguments , the government , the
what the the in the , in the the concerns of the ACRA , in the region , I lives , the people who receive the the fund in the part of the program are financially the the comfortable .
the farmers who have the Canadian money . in receiving not .
i wish to the dismantling a commission to the the longer the money .
the families poor the people , the the money . the parties not .
this is that the " and the Canadian and producers of the Canadian Saskatchewan .
the back to the Corporation of the credit crop , the government down the one relief the Canadian debt sympathetic the Canadian this society ?
the Corporation of the credit crop . is not a responsibility shared with the provinces ; it falls only to the government , the
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I do little not the ?luder the question of the senator .
i do I will respond today , the
the entire clearly , the matter is the the hands of the Minister .
as the I am in the Canadian to a response clear , I am very pleased to the make .
honourable senators , the two governments provincial and the people uphill expressed , the Ottawa and the , a conviction concern to the farmers .
they not lower not the apologize when they might be the program . operating not fully , the
we , we .
the honourable the the two sides of the union during the debate Special the " the request of the Honourable Senator Gustafson .
however , the program . the not been put the the only the federal , he has been developed , cooperative with the two governments , now , after their intervention soaring , confiscation of the CCN prepared .
the people . aimaient not the program , they have been put the the improvements .
the Minister of the Agriculture trying to improve the effectiveness of the program .
however , the fact that the - the not be not perfect . sorry no , clerical the the two premiers ministers .
the Program of the in the Canadian origin related to the income crop - Conformity effectiveness of the program
the Honourable Herbert O . Sparrow :
honourable senators , the government . the Saskatchewan , while 200 million . $ the the program , but this amount . is not spent because of the federal , d?bourse not a part of the money .
he is the then , the amounts to waiting , but the government , not the no plan the disability the materials that money .
the Leader of the government to the Senate . the Canadian a $ additionnel the 170 million . $ .
this amount is administered the first , Canada and the " the only the hostilities by the problem , he is the .
the Department of the same . said that he would the amounts to the grants have awarded .
the result , he not just not in the " the majority of the farmers who is the way from the the the CCN , in some cases , are empil?es the the pupitres been six months .
the governments of the Saskatchewan and the the Manitoba have paid to us that they parallel help to the program .
the Leader of that the the governments have agreed to the make .
the us that the hallmark that the governments and the organizations agricultural the are heard the the point .
however , the not . not the case .
this , the summer proposed the summer agreed , but the program developed , and was well different and the provinces have said that is not the not the program that they had accepted .
the Federation Canadian of the Agriculture and all the farmers have said that is not the not the program agreed to the country .
they will the affair the the program , the money . is not paid to those who , the need .
Mr. the Minister , you you certainly say that we in the discussions , the Senate and with the important delegation , is soul we meet and that this is operating not .
the committee on the the Agriculture and the committee Standing the the Agriculture the Canadian House of the House know that this is the case , but we persistons the " that is not . not the country fault .
the Leader of the government to the Senate ask the " the Minister of the Agriculture the us that topic , the government undertake to a thing , for the us can we withdraw dignement ?
the the Hon. the
hear !
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , as the honourable the the two sides of the said , the years of the debate . emergency , the program . operating not , and the be amended .
the in the agreement generally and the message the summer clear Message .
i do I do let the the the not the not the case .
honourable senators , I say that he is the that a chance to the provinces , to a contribution important .
all the honourable can the feeling that 170 million . $ , the not the not enough , but it is a contribution concrete and , the my opinion , the two provinces have had the specific as the
the effectiveness of the program of the - Government survival of the young farmers
the Honourable Terry Stratton :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the farmers suffering 1,000 died in the
those who are the poorest and more raising can proceed to the purpose of the crisis because the people are paying for long .
those who , tears are the young the wish maintain the business rock .
we are in the Canadian and defeat slowly , but surely .
a year after the other , they suffer 1,000 died and the Income .
the the place . the " fairness that he not there will the Canadian assistance , the people will die the people are unable to survive by their own means , the government to help to the fact , piecemeal to keep alive a false hope .
this is unreasonable .
the Minister that he is that is a way fair to deal of young farmers Canadian ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , we should be our closest to help the young farmers who are in a situation critical .
we should be the be wished the Canadian the Minister of the subject of the matter of the Corporation of the credit crop .
this is a problem of obtaining the , as the honourable senators , knowing , is interwoven the the years of the events of basic the the market global and the the fact that our farmers . the not a " the the rules of the beginning playing .
this is a problem of obtaining the the Canadian and effect , the international de and which he will seek a solution to various levels .
my colleagues I compare the assurance that the the efforts are flags and that the the discussions are in the only one with the Minister of the Agriculture and the Department , but also on the scene international , and the , to the problem . problem . vast that is , and other things , the absence of rules of the beginning playing .
the crisis crop to the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan - Conformity Program of the in the Canadian origin related to the income crop - Effect we fail to the applicants
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the the the Honourable Minister that the Canadian and the appointments to examine the situation , they not reflect , not the emergency the Canadian the United the crisis exists .
this is very well , I , the modest we are the summer awarded or the Canadian the world , but it is the present emergency .
in response to the the emergency , he is the Canadian and redundant , drastic , by the , in eliminating the ACRA and the Supplementary the the government completely different to come to help to those who are in the need .
he is the " in close a week , the the people of the environment crop to the Manitoba I have said that $ 59p. per - and processing made by the farmers were the explanations .
the Minister know , he would the situation is the gap the the latest , the government . the restructuring of the ACRA the ages have had the ?
with what speed the things can the provinces , improve ?
the time leadership and the situation . d?t?riore , repeatedly .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I can give the Deputy the senator , the the in response to the problem General and the Canadian . MacEachen that it raises the the percentage of requests explanations , we get the evolution of the situation daily .
i do know that if the new information valid are available for the the government . toll the summer taken , but I will certainly I shall and conveyed the request of the Honourable Senator .
the senator Spivak :
what period of probation the " for the this new restructuring the the the government evident that the beginning . in anticipation not the chandelle ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , as the motion of the to the program , the Minister responsible ruled the evolution of the situation and , in the case , this , I am sure that he ruled the evolution daily .
i hope that the results . " diminished enough to the
i do then , when he hopeful that the other changes are required or the the program delivery better now .
this would difficult to me to say , he will this decision .
however , I do not . the the negotiating the evolution of the situation . the Order of the .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the period of the issues . the fragments .
however , the senator Gustafson wish question . the .
is the the one issue supplementary to a question 81 ?
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson :
the Hon. the Speaker :
please question your the .
the crisis crop to the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan - Request for visiting the the Prime Minister
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , the government . the crisis , the Leader of the government to the Senate may , he convey to the Prime Minister of the Canadian from see the the - the Canadian state of the situation ?
the west of the Canada became certainly the the Prime Minister strictly see the the - the Canadian state of the situation .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I bring certainly this is the the Prime Minister .
... the late ...
the Environment
the Nova Scotia Nova Scotia - fault of the contaminated the the sites of pollutants sites - Request for Answer
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , he is the few weeks , I have asked a question to the Leader of the government on the Government of the government to the responsibility to the respect to the sites miniers abandoned the the Cape - Cape .
the bill to the C - 11 , the Canadian Airborne the Devco , is now , the study the Canadian House of the House , and I wish to a response to this issue before the the bill to the not happen . .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I am pleased to respond to the question of the senator .
the one time , the people were very pleased to pay for the the kind of the legal .
this was the " I believe , the nice time .
i have seen a notice legal the the subject .
the this notice legal , the I am pleased to share with the senator and the other person interested , the bill to the not be no impact on the responsibility existante .
i can give the the senator , the information . the d?taill?es the the subject , the the I will .
the senator Murray :
i wish to the Government of the government to the responsibility to the respect to the sites miniers abandoned .
the senator Boudreau :
i can say , the senator , the government attempted , the somewhat a the other prominent the responsibility .
however , I do know that if I can count on this .
... the late ...
the National Defence
the replacement of the helicopters Sea King - Government Position of the credit , Donkin - Request for Answer
the Honourable Gerry St. :
honourable senators , my question . question also to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the 4 November , I have asked a question regarding the possibility of Brandon the Sea King in BC the the helicopters , and the Leader of the government was the information with the the Minister of this regard .
later , I , on soon or vote , I ask the new the question tomorrow , the period of the issues ?
i am a entorse the the Rules , Your Honour , for the question I question .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , to the relocation the process , a response to forwarded .
answers delayed the Canadian and the control
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I have the the answers delayed the four , the
the first , the " a question , the summer casual 2 November 99 the the Senate by the Honourable Senator Forrestall , the subject of the regiment West Power Power and the Canadian appointment of a Colonel honorary .
the second the one issue , the summer raised the 3 November 99 the the Senate by the Honourable Senator Kelleher the the subject of a contract the consultation with the employer the one former ambassador .
the third , the " a question , the summer raised the 3 November 99 the the Senate by the Honourable Senator Roche the the subject of the disarmament nuclear , the Canadian political the the government side , the resolution of the York Agenda Coalition .
the fourth the one issue , the summer raised in the Senate by the Honourable Senator Oliver , the subject of the efforts efforts to increase the regions of the minority visible the the public . the government .
the Defence down
the West Power Regiment - Government appointment of a Colonel honorary
the West Power Regiment the midst the units yours the Canadian R?serve Canadian .
as all the units the Canadian R?serve , he is a vital important to the team of the Defence of the Canada .
in the the concerns of appointing the one new Colonel honorary , the Security the one person has been expulsion .
this recommendation is now , the study .
the business foreign
the new ambassador the Canadian the Organization World of the trade , The of the one contract the consultation with the employer the the former ambassador - Request for Tabling of documents
( response to the question raised by the honorableJames F . Kelleher the 3 November 99 )
the , Mr. Weekes is the medical , credit to the MA?CI and not the no contract with the Department .
he is whether the one conflict of interest bearer Weekes does the well , sets of Ethics the this effect .
2 . guarantee , APCO not the no contract with the government . the Canada
the United Human
the disarmament nuclear - Government Policy the the government side , the resolution of the York Agenda Coalition
( response to the question raised by the honorableDouglas Roche the 3 November 99 )
after the appropriateness of the consultation depth of higher level of the very intensive , the Canada has decided to maintain the forbearance the the the concerns of resolution on the " Nouvel order to the Order of the this year .
in the whole , our decision . E not a response to the text of the resolution .
the text of this year . sometime significantly and supports the report , the the us we examined the year , the
the government . the Canada . rallie the addition , the general , the assessment the by the York Agenda Coalition the the high pressure pressures on the system of disarmament and the only the proliferation nuclear harm the the TNP .
the country , however , a plan concerted to the problem . many problems with which the system of disarmament and the only the proliferation nuclear is the the actions n?cessitera the support the most quite possible .
the United legal the weapons nuclear and their partners and emerging be the CCN to the the " may achieve the objectives of the resolution on the Nouvel order to the Order .
the country , the us go continue to cooperate with all the United the context common to the public . the representations update to the demand a support increased the vote of the potential of progress in the the concerns of objectives key to the system of the - proliferation and the disarmament nuclear .
in his capacity of the Canadian the NATO , the Canada has made note with satisfaction of the increase the the number of the members of the NATO , staffed the weapons nuclear the people adopted a position common to the opportunity to the vote of this year .
we reach us a new , the the issues involved , the resolution on the Nouvel order to the Order of the Conference of the Canadian the TNP the will be the spring next .
the government . the Canada . efforcera the resulting the the the Canadian Conference link the Treaty and r?tablisse a dynamic in the Canadian the potential of the objectives .
the development of the resources human
the efforts efforts to increase the regions of the minority visible
( response to the question raised by the Donald H . Oliver : 3 November 99 )
the data on the minority visible in the basis public federal , criterion the the principle of statement volunteered the the employee .
the data available to the recent indicate that the one total of 248 employees the Chair achieve the misguided in the groups and viability EX - 04 and EX - 05 ( Service - provincial assistants ) , five the one of the 2.0 to contingent the are leaving the misguided as members of the group of the minority visible .
the data for the subamendment , ministers or the people being the the Governor in the not have not available .
on business orders
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
second reading of Debate the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Kirby , seconded by the Honourable Senator Lewis , seconded the Canadian second reading of the bill to the C - 6 , the motion to facilitate and the use of Trade Ministerial the virtue of information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of the coverage to bring or put the the information and the the sophisticated and the Act , the Act , and the the Canada , the Act , the Statutory Instruments and the Act , the review of the legislation .
the Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Murray , before the honourable not commenciez , I remind the country order to bursaries 45 minutes in the the Prime speaker the other the honourable , the author of the bill to the .
but you have already prepared de37 minutes .
he would be a trauma minutes .
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
i will be the my best .
honourable senators , he is a the Canadian second half of a speech that I have begun to deal of 7.5 November , stamped the debate , the the name of the Opposition loyal the Queen Majesty , the the bill to the C - 6 .
the Canadian into the the corridors of the subject , I wish correct a inexactitude that I have commise in my speech , the 4 November . " talking the the efforts to the summer made in the past , overall parties political , the Canadian academic in the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedom a right to the life private .
i have stated by virtue Mr. Chr the summer the Minister of the Justice of the government Trudeau before the election of 1979 .
however , he not in the way .
Mr. . Chr is much Minister of the Justice when the government Trudeau the way of the in 1980 .
the in my speech , the 4 November , I have said , parenth?se the comments of the character posterity the the data the the census .
the question . was raised in early today , the Canadian the statement of senators , our colleague , the senator Milne .
i have heard the Canadian campaign in the , the the governing the amendment of the bill was the Laurier Wilfrid Laurier , thereby the terms of the information personal and the character private collected the the opportunity to a census .
the the time , I am I opposed by allowing the the the Canadian law , seconded .
since the Canadian and Canadians indign?s by this decision I have written - and the , in some cases , these people were mad - primarily the the people . the g?n?alogie interest .
my answer , the I prejudice to the Order , the summer the following : the " we writing . destinations the protection , and we are receiving , the the motion to the the Parliament of change the bill .
but , the the principle General , I prejudice my decision .
i believe that should stay confidentiels all information personal and private , collected by the government in the context of a census , the Canadian medical the one bill securing the terms of the the information .
i believe , by allowing , the us should avoid the Constitution the bill to the mighty .
after the , the the years of the years , the issues raised in the part of the marked are greatly the most of the indiscr?tes , and the not . not because the the people d?c?dent that the government can the esteemed alternatives the Hon. obligation of respect to confidentiality promise to the people .
this is my opinion , honourable senators ,
in the the site such as the Senate , we should we should the our guard the " and manipulating presenting the some historians , knowledgeable in Science Social and press the us persuade the the right to collect and the information of the information should the ones the all the other rights learning .
this is why I have pr?conis? that we envisagions the signatures a right to the protection of the information personal in the Charter Canadian of the rights and Freedoms .
i agree fully that we have here , NATO or a quelque of two principles legitimate , the one of the access to the information and the other the protection of the information personal .
as to the other conflict of principles , he is trying to find a fair balance .
this quelque the principles or the values pursuing also in the bill to the the us are before .
as I am I committed to the make , I have met a number of the parties interested or agri by the bill to the or I have had with the Canadian and creative phone or more I have read carefully their Crosbie .
i do I do changed the opinion , the subject of the bill to the .
i do take the blood time , today , trying to include the testimony that they will invited to give the the committee , I , I am .
however , I wish to some of the major the Act which the committee will the committee .
honourable senators , he is the one confusion extraordinary the home the government and his counsel as the knowledge , the bill to the the GST to the area of the care of health and how .
the senator Kirby , the mover of the bill to the , the well front about the this issue , he put a long to the debate in paragraph reading .
however , he will be better that is that he has made in his statement prudent the Journals the 1995 120 the the Debates of the Senate . the 4 November the the the said :
honourable senators , the bill to the C - 6 will the ports , all the areas of activity , regardless of the size of the business .
it involves , the area of the health .
he will allow the protection of information personal the federal - health , the summer collected , used and releases in the part of the trade .
Mr. . Manley and the Department of the Industry the indicated to their share that the bill to the not to apply not to the doctors , the the patients and the the hospital .
i wish to say that is the Canadian , is given the question and , in the , doctor by the many parts interested and their counsel legal .
this is the case , such a the Association Canadian of the care of health , the potential the hospital the the Association medical Canadian , the the Association medical the the Ontario and the the Department of the health of the Ontario .
he is a that the organizations , the one point of the diam?tralement opposed the the TAGS the the bill to the and the the " should the make .
yet , they are the agreement on a point , the the the area of the health . " Lotus with the unambiguous and the confusion surrounding the bill to the in the the concerns the application to the area .
the confusion arose in the Canadian the least , the fact that the bill to the motion supposed to apply to the " or commercial the .
that does the " by the ?
the said in the bill to the the one of activity trade , is :
the dark due to the first act isolated the structure a noble commercial -
this definition not . not very useful .
yet , the " said that the legislation federal , pleines the definitions the are predominantly identiques the same - the in the the the policy , the dark trade .
the idea . the " would the the courts the field of directors in every case , the Organization a profitable trade .
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud ( His Honour the Speaker Acting Deputy :
honourable senators , the time , honourable the the senator Murray has expired .
leave is the it leave to the Honourable Senator the objective ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Murray :
i thank the honourable senators , and kindness .
frankly , I do I am never stopped the Canadian rule the limit the 45 minutes the intervention of the senator who does .
i do I was not realized that the I had spent so , time , the first part of my remarks .
i do the I , for the long .
the question is the knowledge , the relationship doctor - patient , in the extent the the , the Canadian and chronic , or the relationship hospital - patient , the one time in the extent the the , the Canadian and chronic , are the nature trade .
that they the members or not , he is the time , a problem .
i quote :
the the AMC , he not there has not really means of the one distinction between the dark trade and the dark the care of health of a way , trusting the the government that the information sub in the matter medical that subject to the the rules different the ones concerning the exemption the other information .
that the so . such distinction was an , the dilemma would the same for the government because it is it desirable that the issues medical not be subject to any rule ?
otherwise , the the organizations , silent now , the information on the health will the people argue that they not have not subject to the provisions of the bill to the C - 54 because the this information . the Canadian the matter of health ?
as you the you , the Communist C - 54 is the the one was assigned to the bill to the " the opportunity to the session 81 .
the relative to injure :
in order to a monopoly system , the issues of health would subject to the the criteria the high that those who have the to the information collected in the context commercial .
this is that the " the one point of the .
the same opinion is stated by the Association Canadian of the health , the potential the hospital .
it is based on a difference legal that it has obtenue the the cabinet the lawyers Heenan Blaikie the Montreal , the specific . the following :
... the only the " to write trade , is the it . ambiguously , but it is also unacceptable achievable the country , in the context of the system of health of today , the
the the years of the past years , the system of health . become a system of the so complex and if transparent that the extent to the mother only " to write trade , the the system of health , the purpose of the bill to the C - 54 hence only to the the results illogiques , Crimes and ridiculous .
i do I do streamline exag?r?ment the question but , in order general , he is the my opinion just the " that the organizations of the area of the health , the activities are clear and indubitablement the Order commercial the face the the bill to the and looking that the the area of the health 737 the the provisions .
when I speak to the the " organizations , I wish to the other , pharmaciens , the Laboratory and the business of silent , pay and vendent the the data the the area of the health , the one form overall or other , and some organizations of research and universities the the activities understand a track commercial .
they feel that the requirement of the the consent of the people before the information of the data in the Canadian health . too on?reuse .
the their view , this requirement harmful serious their ability to meet a body of information integrated to the road to a better policies and the one way management in the area of the health .
they judges the suggested that is the Canadian law . translate by a warning serious the Canadian research medical the the country .
the Ontario Campaign Association rejected that the bill to the motion relative with the Act , the doctors and the Act , the consent to the care of health .
the their view , the legislation provincial should be above .
all these people believe that the institution . protocoles interprovincial would the effective that a bill federal , to the protection of the information on the care of health .
the the time at the I must say that the other people . " the fact , the legislation provincial not have not also optimistic .
in the , the said time that the bill commissions is a bill to the access to the information should be on the protection of the information .
i do I do that the that the the Ontario Campaign Association and the Association Canadian of the care of health . the interested not to the protection of the information on the care of health .
he is the more . quelque the the level of the values , or the first , the Canadian and priorities .
the presentations readers by the groups risk of the concerns that I rough the institutionnelles the " the subscribed the managing , the planned and the latest the system of care of health .
they concerned that is the Canadian law freine the collaboration of the areas public and private , the the the policy , the funding or the Canadian benefit of the care of health .
i have the third in a the the presentations that this could prevent the Red Bleue or the Bouclier Mobil the the Canada . Consequently their responsibilities in Ontario in the area of the care of health .
he would , the one , difficult , even the contempt for the government , the end of the the recommendations of the Council Advisory the the infostructure the Canadian health , the report his report , February 1998 .
the the worst , we have the participants concerns . " by the Association medical Canadian and the the Association hygienist Canadian .
the Association medical Canadian tells the Canadian protection of the terms of the matter medical the the patient must the ones the entire other consideration .
it is that is the Canadian law . low .
it deems that the code of the Association Canadian of normalisation the argument , based on the Canadian law . inad?quat the the the the policy , the area of the health and it believes , as it . the said , the the bill to the ages have the access to the information to preserve dominant .
the Association hygienist Canadian we , the the us we clarify the bill to the Act , and some important .
it says that the bill to the C - 6 not Undeterred not to respond to the requirements fundamental to protect the Canadian , the bad use of information personal the their health by the the users high and tertiaires the this information .
the bill to the C - 6 creates the - be the result of priority of the government in the Canadian trade Ministerial , the the ADC , but it believes that the Senate must be some other for clarify and strengthen the bill to the in the the concerns of information personal the federal - health .
the Association medical Canadian and the Association hygienist Canadian . the two individuals the the amendments that they want to us populace and the , the following the the I , I understood , incorporeraient essentially in this bill federal their own codifies the protection of the information personal .
honourable senators , the committee is effectively to a task difficult and Animal .
the the participants the the face deep , the in the area of the health , he would lenders the " that the truth section that the one of two participants and that the government is probably killed the establishing a fair balance with the bill to the C - 6 .
he would lenders the in place to this conclusion or the support this point , but it would really too easily .
first , the committee will close to dispel the unambiguous and the confusion the comments of the applicability of the bill to the " the area of the health .
this is a field is too important .
the protection of the information personal the federal - health . too important to allow the area in the confusion .
he is clear that the professional in the area . the the acceptance , they are the people , the
if the bill to the not . not clarifi? , the - the risk , a time , the Canadian be more often violated that did .
no - and we do wish to the in the so .
the so we can get the unambiguous the long as the the application of the bill to the , the r?pondons - we to the Association medical Canadian and the the Association hygienist Canadian , the insistent to the Canadian the legislation that significantly stipulates ?
we , we try to apply to the " . the area of the health , as commercial that the commercial ?
if we , we , we , we get the power constitutional the act of the so ?
finally , he is absolutely to health Canada ' s . the .
the so that I know , no as the health Canada . is time evidence in the the hearings of the committee , the House of the House .
the committee and the Senate must benefit of the Province of the Department of the health respect to all the issues of the bill to the the Equalization the area of the health .
personally , I do wish to the the the the Minister come forward , but the committee should certainly invite the the officials officials of the Department of the health , in the this bill to the Chair of the same - the end of health .
honourable senators , we have a the work , to the
either the us to the task , but not rush not the things .
the us imposons not the normal artificiels when he is a the one issue , a .
this time , this , we do we not to us concerned , a prorogation .
we can take the time to the
honourable senators , I would thank the blood indulgence .
the Honourable Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , I have listened with great interest in criticism urgently the country hon. friend .
he we remember and heritage the importance of the question of the right to the life private , basically , the right to the us fond tranquilles .
i believe that is the the Krever Brandeis the the said that we had the right to the us fond tranquilles , and I am well , with the the .
the question is the knowledge , the bill to the effectiveness , the two criteria following .
the Prime is a minimum economic and the second the Canadian law social .
a great many of the honourable the the odd today , in the Canadian I understand the dilemma the challenge to balance justice economic and justice social the one way , the equitable to them and the the people . we have the privilege of representing the this chamber , and that the all the people to which we inspire a very strongly the responsibility .
honourable senators , the motion with a shimmering the special that I speak today , the the bill to the C - 6 .
i am recall that , the the time when I admit the the other place , he is called the bill to the C - 54 , the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic .
my joy is the so , the the the one of the responsibility and the the part of the am the most proud . was the use of the the chairman of the committee Standing the the rights of the human and the Canadian condition of the people disabilities , the other place .
we have the Canadian and hearings on a great variety of the inclusion the life private and , in 1997 , we have carefully a report entitled : " - life private :
the the beneficiaries the border ? "
we have heard the the aerials enough troublantes the the subject of the treatment awarded the the people disabilities and the the rights of the human the not , not , protected .
we have heard about the the challenges the potential the new Technology , the level of the protection of the rights of the citizens of the plight some of muddy in their lives private and the use of information that they d?couvrent the Canadian and for eerie .
our research I have the truth the many facets complex that includes this issue .
he remains yet many of the " to the strengthening our rights abuses .
today , the I traiterai the particular , the part 1 , the bill to the and the Canadian protection of the information personal in the area private .
it is falling the way my concerns as the Canadian second part of the bill to the the door the the documents electronic .
the provisions of the part 2 , the bill to the are essential to facilitate the trade Ministerial the motion become so important to the economy Canadian at the the the importance . will be increased to the years of the years .
the the time , I wish to me focus on the definition of the protection of the life private and the the use of the information personal .
the provisions of the bill C C - 6 to the government , safeguards the Canadian life private future . , not in the right direction , particularly to the most of those who constataient the urgently needed to better protect the right .
in suggesting the principles of the protection of the data recognized internationalement the the business private the individual federal , the bill to the underlying to a system exhaustive the protection of the life private .
the the legislation on the protection of the information personal and the the trade Ministerial are already in the Canadian be distributed , European , in the Union European , the the OECD , in Nova Scotia Zealand and the Australia .
the Americans are concerned because the people . framework not the statutory specific the protection of the information trade .
they ?largissent now , import the this protection for the strengthening their activity trade .
we have also need to do the the trade , honourable senators ,
i am pleased that we are dirigions in this way through the the bill to the .
i remember the the honourable senators , the protection of the information personal not . not a thing to the " may think the stars in a society democratic .
the commissioner to the protection of the life private , Bruce Phillips , the case of these issues , the same that the ones who aspire the Canadian Act , the access to the information .
these two legislation to time coming to find , but the two , for obligation of protecting all the citizens .
the Act , the protection of the information personal existing the collection , the use and the communication of information personal by the the institutions government .
it is very tough and the summer effective , this .
the my opinion , the commissioner Phillips the motion . " served the this service .
the commissioner to the protection of the life private the the Canada has maintained that the strength the anime the companies d?centes is the respect to the principle of fairness .
we must be dealt the umbrella the other with a level reasonable the respect .
we do we not we tour the cachette with the the information that we can use of the other people .
the bill to the C - 6 is the government . respect to the principle of fairness and the d?cence .
the my opinion , the bill to the the balance the balance glance the the right to the need to the business Canadian of the access to the the information personal to exercise their activity and the need to all the citizens of control of raising , the use and the communication of the information , the delivery .
he is out of a number of the us to have a comfort the the correspondence the d?borde the new mail the first of the
we are asking , the extent magazine we have made a abonnement or more what Purchase we have the " the way of a card the credit , the so that we dealing the the us efficiently the country the , in the mail and the the University of our telephone , and we do we not surprise .
this , we amazed , the motion that our names that facilitating .
each of the motion of the Canadian trade , a marchandise .
in what the analysis of the control this marchandise to protect the the information personal ?
the effort to establish a balanced is clear in the article 69 the subject of the bill to the .
i agree that the extent the need to be amend?e and clarifi?e .
i know if we will be a compromise and we heard , but I would certainly , the the comfortable if this issue was the subject of a review the review .
the provisions on the protection of the life private recognize that we greatest in a method the Canadian Technology improves the most of the Canadian flow and the exchange of information .
this is a proper that he not be not forget .
the bill to the C - 6 not . not a panacea to all the threat to the life private concerning the opposite all the companies democratic modern , but it is allowed on a vital important , is the possibility that the the information personal that brought to the the organizations , the Canada .
the bill to the taxation the the consumers of the rights in the the concerns of information personal the the delivery , the in products the need legitimate the the business of terrorism and the use the information .
the consumers be a confidence - that is very important with Internet - and we must sustain this done .
the the our business equipped and grandissent , they must establish a link the confidence with those who use their services .
the result , the confidence that the the consumer that the information personal will protected in the sophisticated electronic is absolutely basic .
in the time , the efforts to protect the information to the Canadian and individuals . the not lead unnecessarily the the cost to the business .
the new legislation legislation require the the business . conforment the the whole of practical playing the treatment of the information available to the point by the representatives of the industry .
the groups of Defence of the consumers , the unions , the government and various industries the the area of the health have been consulted to this bill to the the Association Canadian of normalisation .
this is that , I believe , a vast representation of the concerns and the the needs to take the consideration .
the practical playing the treatment of the information , he is the the combined the Code kind of the Association Canadian of normalisation .
this book is the effect been 1996 and the Permanent the Journals the the bill to the .
he has been developed the the point by the corporation civil , the business , the industry , the professional and the NGOs .
a the the amendments would relevant in the foundation , he is a the one description very large , cover a wide range of business trade , the Canada .
this book makes the obligations of the business of silent , apparel and cabinet the the information personal .
the business be careful to the people to what purpose of information . Whelan , to their consent before the use or the information to information , along the the the the information that the most of the necessary to the purpose concerning the need to the only not only important what purpose , but , the purpose concerning the people were collected - and protect the information , the the government . security adequate .
the standard national makes the the right to the issues of the data the look and the correct their issues and the the correct in the Canadian problems .
these people can the highest the somewhat a in the business of it used to reconsider escient or had information to information and records that a responsible . ' s , with the homicide the government acted .
he is a , as a debate on the improvements to make the the bill to the to the matter . effective .
i remember the the honourable senators , a bill to the motion rarely perfect in his form original ; the fact , the Canadian things are parfaites the the world . imparfait .
the evolution of this bill to us montrera in the meaning we orienter to make the the amendments to improve the effectiveness of the plan of the protection of the information personal . in products the interests legitimate the the business Canadian in the Canadian the Canadian the possible .
a senator has asked a question to the subject of the whole of the services of health .
i know the AMC , and I believe that the it applies the Place of Hippocrate , a criminal the conduct and a criminal the Ethics .
all the doctors , dentists and pharmaciens be the , preferring .
it is to the necessarily that the us we have the one patchwork h?t?roclite the government to prevent any impairment the the right to the protection of the identity and the the information personal the the Canada .
honourable senators , I have been very pleased to see that the one made to the changes to the bill to the report , the beginning to the other place .
he is the in December amendments , and a number of the one of the answer to the Canadian my questions and the my concern .
the , the definition of the information personal the summer amend?e .
the amendment is very important , because of expression reclassification now . the the the article in a individual identifiable .
it is here , the the things as the cam?ras the Parliaments , the cam?ras plac?es in the street , the information medical and dentaires , the information of order revamped , the pharmacies the livrent the Bureau , and the research .
however , for us pr?munir , the mistake , it is crucial , because our information personal a time perdus , not have the typical - the the motion vital that the definition the ?tende the the members of the highest Professional and the the NGOs .
i wish to us apportions a change the this provision the the " is the definitions .
if I do I understand , this provision the very in the part 1 , the the article 2 , the just the comments the senator .
this section " is that he is to the dark trade .
that is the the the one line trade ?
the the the is the one line trade , the dark the case should be couverte and it should that the the professional and the the organizations . the profit .
i believe that we r?glerions , some of the problems , the summer raised by ensuring organizations .
honourable senators , then , I conclude , with your leave ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Finestone :
he is a the information related to the the ones human identifiables and , frankly , I do I do think the one of the the groups or cercles different .
essentially , if the information that you have I respect and that you the papacy obtenue because the I would the I demand?e to my police the assurance , the the services of health , the the services medical or dentaires , this information I do and it . the .
as my small - child the " , it is the I .
it is the I and human not be the the commandeer if we pass this bill to the right .
the right to the not be identifiables by those coalition we do wish to be uncovered - stamped , the right to the not be importun?s - must be guaranteed in the article the the bill to the the are contained in definitions .
i wish to the us parvenions the the make .
i hope that the Minister accept the Constitution . definition and that he responded to the the it deems that he we can the Canadian the the summer lesson this information or how it is desk in the world trade if the interested the the the obtenue not had not the right to the make - the not had not my leave , he not the not have my layman and I do I do that he has the information , his possession .
he is also look the question raised in the rule 7 ) 3 ) f ) the the bill to the level of the communication of information to the the purpose of research .
many of people . alleged the the use of information to the the purpose of research .
he is the way of using the the data , identify the people .
he not there has no reason for the " no such not the make .
the person lead the the research , promoting the identity of the people .
the question drop by this provision is the end " the the history .
cooperative , honourable senators , the bill to the motion excellent the the the right to developed and review the some places .
i believe that the bill to the C - 6 , the fact , the Canadian strategy necessary to this end , will the vote of the House and become law .
i believe that we can do the fault problem with the Union European .
i believe that we respecterons the criteria the the OECD .
the important , the I believe that we prot?gerons the information personal the first , the .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Oliver , the debate is adjourned . )
the honourable senators , I am particularly pleased to speak , the Canadian the bill to the S - 10 , the legal the Constitution the Act , the Defence down , the Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques , the the Code offence .
this bill to the long in a wide the result of the Senate and the specific the the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional .
this bill to the potential the huge the one ' s , soliciting General has made the fall the when the committee examinait the new Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques .
as you , in recall that the be , this bill includes the institution . the bank national the data g?n?tiques the will the deficit the prevalence the identification genetics the individuals who have made to the crimes serious and violent .
during his study , the committee has remarked that the bill to the not act no provision During the levy of sites Finland the Canadian and raised misleading guilty of offenders serious and violent and traduits in the part of the system of justice military , levy the the results are then paid in the bank the data g?n?tiques .
the committee has expressed the concerns as the Canadian psyche extremely sensitive the the data g?n?tiques , the the evolution quick of the technology the the fingerprints g?n?tiques and the the risk of the rights , the life private the the Canadian of the impr?vue .
these concerns the borders the committee to suggest , in the sixteenth Report , the changes some improvements to the government legislation dealing the bank the data g?n?tiques .
the Solicitor General , was committed to give the " the recommendations in initiating a bill to the distinct before the implementation of the Canadian the bank national the data g?n?tiques .
the the the the bill to the S - 10 does the Canadian and the difficulties the the Senate , the Solicitor General has asked wording that he be introduced to the Senate before the other place .
i am sure that we appr?cions all this initiative deM .
i do now , the content of the bill to the .
he is a the one bill to the sensitivity technical , truff? the clauses the Canadian and law , but , basically , the major component are very simple .
the Canadian first , the bill to the existence the Act , the Defence down and the Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques the manner in include in the bank national the data g?n?tiques the profiles the the individuals recognized guilty of offending the the code of biochemistry military or the heat serious and violent .
the code the GST to the staff military , the the reserve and the some civilian the Expenditure the military to the foreign .
the system of profiles the identification genetics established by the bill to the S - 10 to the army following the Shuswap the model of the system that the Parliament , created to the civil .
the Canadian , the one condemnation to the offence substances , the judges military will therefore , the Canadian command the levy of ?chantillons the sites Finland the Canadian and the justiciables the the code of biochemistry military .
the provisions of this bill to the " the licensing of re are adjusted to the peculiarities of the context military .
the , the police military will ask the the elected the the red g?n?tiques when it enqu?tera the Canadian and Nigeria the Order military who are comparable to the heat high d?finies in the Code offence .
the changes contribute to the improvements notables the Canadian law , into the
in the state of the the things , the police military the the highest the one woman the one court provincial to obtain a mandate Covenant the Canadian and monitorings g?n?tiques in the part of the inquiry on a violation substances commise the the Canada , but it is the not get it mandate , the offence the summer commise the the foreign .
the list of the heat d?sign?es definition in the Code offence not broad not the heat serious the the words of the Act , the Defence down or some offences the character strictly military , by the , the whip with violence .
the bill to the will the the judges military the power to render the the elected relating to the red g?n?tiques the case of offenders to the Act , the Defence down the so that the police military that led the the investigation police than effective as the the Canada . " the foreign .
a second round of amendments made in the bill to the effectiveness directly to the recommendations of the committee on the
this bill to the giving the the Senate . the power to the House of the House of the the motion of the Canadian Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques five years after his proclamation .
these changes prompted specifically to give the the Parliament , magazines to the person the effectiveness of the bank the data on a certain the , the the was a concern to the Senate .
the third Main part of the signing is the purpose of the principles of the Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques , the motion expanded .
he will again , the sites Finland Accounts and the profiles g?n?tiques standard to the Canadian . sites . the be used to the the purpose of the Canadian the bill .
this amendment to the answer to the concerns of the committee on the the subject of the bad use that the the profiles g?n?tiques , by the to determine the fleet medical , verbal or mentales the one person .
in the , it appeared some of the issues raised during the debate on the information personal .
this bank the data the to the Canadian identify the people , as the person , the make the the way of the fingerprints training .
he not to a not and the not to Glenney have the compiler the the information of order , the
the the changes made to the Code offence will the protection also , the bad use of information g?n?tiques the the people justiciables the the code of biochemistry military .
the other changes to this bill will the effect of clarify and the strengthening the system of fifty the sites Finland .
under the the new concept of the just the honourable senators , the Code offence will amended the so that the system of justice military will also subject to the removal of using the Canadian and for the allowable the sites Finland Accounts and the results of their analysis genetics .
finally , the bill to the meaning a number of the changes to Order practice the the Code offence to the government , and the implementation of the Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques .
the Code offence is therefore clarifi? the this regard to the , is that the Canadian . the the not to be orderly if the lawyer , the Crown informed the court that the prevalence genetics the Canadian Human drop the very have the Canadian bank national the data g?n?tiques .
the forefront , the system . effective and the regular the Estimates outlive occasionn?es by the collection and the analysis , double the the ?chantillons the sites Finland bailed the the Cold chronic .
in the case where the the Cold are constitutionally in a place in the the one of the levy of a ?chantillon not be the ex?cut? , the judges of court provincial will join the Order of the authority to the summer awarded in the province of the Iraqi the Cold the question .
two of the the Code offence , the not , not yet , into the will abrog?es the case of the consequences negative that they have to the board of the justice .
he is a the the requirement , for a officer of the peace , the frigate a person drop by a guideline or a mandate Covenant the the red g?n?tiques that it is Sue his meritorious as the Canadian substance corporelle the purposes of blood , salive or flash - and the the requirement of the officer of the peace - to the Canadian the Presbyterian position .
these provisions taken a problem because the way in the right p?nal not stuck the police to allow a person who has the subject of a commission choose the way of raising the the evidence of the .
the most is , as the people , the representatives of the provinces and the the territories , the judges prescrivent have the the elected the Orders of inquiry . " , and if the hands of human choose , it follows the make unused his decision , the Canadian a judge .
a place clause of the Code offence will abrog?e .
it to the coming emissions in the bank the data g?n?tiques the the results of the payroll of sites Finland explanations 4,000 or bearing in order to a mandate During the potential of communications g?n?tiques during the inquiry .
the Laboratory court Canadian . the knowledge that they not , not in favour of entry the results of the payroll of sites Finland and the profiles g?n?tiques the in clauses in the bank the data in the case , that , because of sites Finland and the profiles generic are usually retained to serve the room to conviction the the case where he is that a new civil .
in addition , the ?chantillons bailed the Constitution of a mandate During the kind inquire , contrary to those who will bailed to the bank the data , the condemnation , are assortis the codifies the identification personal .
he will therefore , difficult to the RCMP the protection of Rights , the life private the the individuals , and that the moon the Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques .
the Republic . problem , the very now be the purposes of new ?chantillons the sites Finland each time that he is the one order to their inclusion in the bank the data , the motion ? " - that the Canadian condemnation .
in conclusion , the bill to the S - 10 , some amendments to the Act , the Defence down , the Canadian Act , the identification of the fingerprints g?n?tiques and the the Code offence , the Canadian to the implementation of the effective the one bank the data the data g?n?tiques full .
the only to give the " and recommendations of the committee on the but the most of affine the bill to the bank the data to the the purpose of the practice .
the whole , these changes are we have the this chamber on a part important undoubtedly the protection of the Canadian and Canadians to the life private . in dotant the police , for his investigation , the one tool of high technicit? the will the latest the safety public .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Kinsella , the the name of the senator Nolin , the debate is adjourn? . )
bill to the Canadian 99 to the implementation of inclusion of Tax Conventions
second reading of Second the the debate
the honourable senators , I am pleased to initiate the debate on the reading of the second reading of the bill to the S - 4 .
this editorial legislative the to the Canadian to the implementation of the conventions tax treaties between the Canada and seven country , the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgarian , the Portugal , the Ouzb?kistan and the Jordan - with which the Canada . the not the conventions tax . into the .
the bill to the door also the Canadian a new convention replacement the Convention at the the Luxembourg and ends in the one protocol the existence of the parties of the Convention reached with the Japan .
the Canadian alters the bill to the , I wish to a time to establish the context in which he is recorded .
the the time when the system of the tax on the income of the Canada has been examined and regular , 1971 , he , the part hysterical a Enhanced the country system of Tax Conventions with the other countries .
the the time at the Canadian and signed tax . the Canada and 65 country are in effect .
honourable senators , he would int?ressera the - be the knowledge that since 1976 , 24 the Canadian law , conventions tax . was tabled the the Parliament . In the two years in the , the the conventions or the the protocoles the summer standard with at the .
the conventions tax . particularly important to the Canada because the provinces are directly related to the trade internationally the events and the services and that they have a a cancer direct the their performance economic domestic .
this cancer . the .
the export Canadian portion now , the 40 per - our happened within gross annual .
in addition , the health economic the the Canada and in harvesting also on the investment foreign direct , the Act , influx the information , the capital , the technology , the royalty , the band and the interests .
he is therefore clear that the conventions tax treaty in the bill to the S - 4 profiteront the the business and the the particular Canadian , proposing the the activities and the increasing the the investment in the country .
the taxpayers Canadian will the happy to learn that a rate of tax set the Convention not be a 1993 , a long wants .
the most , the the simple , the their livelihood , the conventions tax cr?eront a climate of certainty and the stability to the investors and the n?gociants .
this poll not be the latest the relationship economic that EI the Canada with each of these countries .
in addition , in eliminating the need to pay the the tax on some returns of business and the setting a mechanism the Order of the problems encountered by the taxpayers , he will be the deficit the complexity and the incommodit? the the system tax as such .
the fact , streamline the system of the conventions tax foster the dark international , the the will a the favourable the the economy Canadian .
finally , the Elimination or the att?nuation the Canadian taxation rate of the words remote in the part of the operations international revered the most of conservation .
if the " makes the fact , Chile , proposes the in effect with the Luxembourg , the new tax treaty in the bill to the S - 4 improve the great objectives : avoid the little tax and prevent the Statement tax .
these problems are already taken in suggesting in the Convention , into the the Japan .
i am front of note that the the case of the conventions tax identify , these conventions are greatly laden the the model of double taxation prepared by the Organization of cooperation and the development economic .
the possibility of double taxation conventions when a taxpayer section in a country and that he earner a revenue in a place in the
the Convention tax , the two of the desperation the the tax on the income .
the conventions the little tax are in the the the same income . the be imposed two , the
the conventions tax treaties by the Canada . attack the the problem of two ways .
first , in residence the rights of tax . the country . residence the the taxpayer and the country . was the the income .
second , if the income is nevertheless allowance in the two of the in response to the country . residence that he considers the income as the cabinet the tax or in 1985 a credit to the CHST the the tax paid to the country . was the
the same , the conventions the little tax seeks the exchange of information between the authorities tax . the Canadian prevent the Statement or the avoidance tax .
this is the second thoughting the the conventions .
the share of the information available to Swiss tax to cerner the case of Organized and the avoidance tax and the , which the
in the the the policy , the conventions down in the bill to the S - 4 , each country goes the break the appropriate to the CHST the the tax paid in the other countries of the Canadian Human tax .
the Canada and the other countries apply usually of the tax . " to various options the income of the - residents .
the country . the motion learned the income the services of the tax , the one rate of the limit usually the notice , 10 or 15 per the the band and the returns of the rate and the 10 per in the case of the interests and the the royalty .
in some cases , the royalty pay?es the the CHST the the rights of gloom , the the meaning , the the pharmaceutical and the the knowledge - to the exon?r?es the Canadian source .
the Convention reached with the Kirghizistan , by the , limits the rate of the notion of Tax the rate per in the case of the band , the the interests and the the returns of royalties and ?10p. per in the case of the royalty .
he is some exon?rations to the the motion of the interests and that the the royalty the the rights of gloom , the meaning , the pharmaceutical and the knowledge - to the
the Convention reached with the Lebanon the one restraint the tax . cent per the the band paid to a society , holds the the least 10 per - and Senators of the corporation , benefits of laying and the rate per in all the other cases .
the returns of royalties and the royalty the the rights of gloom , the meaning , the pharmaceutical and the knowledge - to be imposed the one rate of per cent and the interests of a rate of 10 per .
the the Algeria , a tax . cent per will Main in the case of all the band , interests and royalties , and some exon?rations are down to the interests and the royalty the the meaning and the pharmaceutical .
the Convention reached with the Bulgarian the the application of a scheme the tax . per cent of the band doctoral the one from holding the the least 10 per - and Senators of the corporation , benefits of laying , and the rate per in all the other cases .
the the the Canadian the Convention reached with the Portugal , a society . evidence to the least 25 per - and Senators of the corporation , benefits of laying to have a " a scheme the tax de10p. per the the band .
a scheme the rate per the rate in all the other cases .
a scheme the 10 per the rate , the the interests and royalties , the few exceptions in the the interests .
in the the the policy , the Ouzb?kistan , the rate of " the tax , the rate of the band doctoral the one from the welfare the the least 10 per - and Senators of society , benefits of laying will the rate per and the rate per in all the other cases .
a rate of 10 per the rate of the interests and the the royalty , and a tax . cent per will pr?lev? the the rights of gloom , the pharmaceutical , the meaning and the knowledge - to the
the new convention banning with the Jordan makes ?10p. per the notion of Tax the the GST to the band doctoral the one from holding the the least 10 per - and Senators of the corporation , benefits of laying , and the rate per , the the the GST in all the other cases .
the Convention the so . " the 10 per the the interests and the royalty , some exon?rations the existing the the interests of the skin Works and finish the the government .
the bill to the S - 4 status of the Convention of 1989 reached with the Luxembourg and the the application of a scheme the tax . cent per the the band to a society , holds the the least 10 per - and Senators of the corporation , benefits of laying , and the rate per in all the other cases .
a rate of 10 per the rate of the interests and the the royalty , the new to some rare in the the interests and the royalty the the meaning , the pharmaceutical and the knowledge - to the
the bill to the S - 4 itself . the present convention of 1986 reached with the Japan .
the protocol with the Japan . the Canadian 10 , per cent of Tax Main the the band of companies and the ?claircit a number of the other provisions .
in addition , the protocol the specific the Canadian . the the tax Japanese the business . exon?rant the the tax . companies Canadian , Distinguished the the ships or the the aircraft in the area of the transportation intercontinental , a measure of character have leave the the provinces Canadian , the companies Japanese who ours the the activities similar .
honourable senators , the conventions that involves the bill to the S - 4 them as the Canadian and the Canadian taxation tax .
the example , the country . was the restrictions the gains in capital gains the the divesting of a well estate , the assets trade and the actions in the companies real or the Canadian holdings in the the real or the the companies , and trusts .
the discrimination based on the nationalit? the one taxpayer is cod .
however , the government incitatives as the deduction leave to the small businesses and the credit to tax to dividends the norm the Canadian . the not affected .
the Canadian industries , I wish I look the Canadian . the the migrations the the taxpayers .
four of the conventions down in the bill to the numbers the Canadian a certain the Canadian and rules on the migration of the taxpayers the people were proposed by the Minister of the Finance and the agreements of the the bill to the budget of 1999 .
these proposals improve the Constitution the Act , the tax on the income of the " is that the Canada divested the right to impose the gains made by the immigrants for their trip here .
the the time , the public the bill to the in December last , the Minister has announced that the Canada ren?gocierait the conventions tax to be the Canadian and new rules to the Republic of double taxation .
the , in uncertainty that these rules have force of the , the Canada has quotes the conventions tax . the " Could the little tax to the time when the gains made by the the immigrants , before the beginning , are increasingly .
in the the concerns of the Canadian law S - 4 , the conventions with the Luxembourg , the Portugal , the Lebanon and the Jordan held the Canadian the migration of the taxpayers .
however , the conventions with the Ouzb?kistan , the Bulgarian , the Algeria and the Khirghizistan not in boat not the Chair of the provinces have been n?goci?es before the announcement of the proposals .
the Japan . " that this issue of the migration of the taxpayers the proposal in the part of future negotiations surrounding the Convention .
the agreements , I wish to the the conventions tax . contains the bill to the are con?ues to ease the little tax international the the income transferred the one country . a place .
these conventions tax will the make the so that the political tax Canadian that collective uniform?ment the the operations treaties with the Khirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgarian , the Portugal , the Ouzb?kistan , the Jordan , the Japan and the Luxembourg . Elles cr?eront also a climate of stability to the investors and the n?gociants Canadian in the country .
honourable senators , the bill to the S - 4 is a " legislative the nature based the legal a tax fair and the peace - win relations international and trade .
the equity of the system tax - the , as we , we all , is a priority of the state of adequate that no Canadian . the very the " the pi?ge the Canadian taxation rate .
however , these conventions tax points which the clean the little tax .
the Canadian industries , I wish to the work wonderful the the team of expert the people from the process long and arduous the country government .
these officials have served the interests of the Canada , the habile leadership of their Minister respectif the the Finance and the Canadian Justice .
they deserve all our thanks .
as the text of the not there any disagreement , I would suggest urge the the support .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Lynch - Staunton , the debate is adjourned . )
the speech , the Throne
motion of the Canadian the Adresse the answer to Continued the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Jeffrey , seconded by the Honourable Senator Furey , seconded the the adoption of a Adresse the Governor General of Gouverneure general , on the the speech that contemporaries the speech in the the opening of the second session of the Thirty - sixth session Parliament . -
( 3e on the Canadian resuming the the debate . )
the Honourable M. Kelly :
honourable senators , I am delighted to see that the Canadian senators , the side - the members nothing to me to this afternoon , afternoon .
i have a well , the Canadian , benefit to the maximum .
i am commend the the commitment to the the speech , the Throne the Canadian ensure the the the the Canadian Forces be in the Canadian support the role of the Canada for help to the safety in the world . .
Gerry - we do the subamendment , midst the extent in the us are held in honour this commitment .
since 1988 , the Estimates incurred the the CHST the Canadian Defence down the decreased in $ terms , in the year , the the point that the power to cancel the the budget of the Defence is today , the little about equivalent to the Canadian the beginning of the years 70 .
the average the us begin to buy the equipment necessary and the government . maintenance the summer particularly affaiblis by the Canadian Medical budget .
the steering the the forces personnel actives , the was the doubling $ the in 1989 , 1990 , should , the the Estimates , hidden the 60 per - by the Canadian reseller the the fiscal fiscal the years .
we do we have more in the Canadian Airborne the the units combattantes to the Lord the land , the the floor acceptable to lead a plan military sustainable .
the the data published by the NATO , the Canada . Forest , the last rank of the country , for the the motion of the troop the Canadian auspices due and the the Canadian Daily and high the contingency .
he is the the the law , the end of the war cold the near the need to maintain a consistent military involve and lifelong and the fund . MacEachen the " advantageous the peace , the
as I , I often said , this chamber , I believe that they will trompent totally .
the threat to the safety and their sources the person - be changed , but the world . today , is inadequate , instable , coupled and unforeseeable that have the
the possibility of conflict local and regional d?clench?s by the the mouvements separatists nationalists is still , in all the examples of the Brandenburg .
the threat of terrorism by the the United ren?gats and the the groups rebel there has .
honourable senators , I sphere the word that the impact international the the failure of some U.S. constitueront the main threat to the safety of the Canada and the the Canadian in a future predictable .
that is that the Africa , in the former - Ata Soviet , in Asia - the South - east , in America core or in America , the South , he does the Canadian and the the d?sorganisent , as the the the view , the to various reasons economic , environmental or political .
the d?sint?gration the one of scholarship a vacuum the power to the empressent often the vacancy the the groups criminals or terrorist the , the their turn , effectively the safety of the other states .
the very the the examples of this in the former - Ata Soviet .
the effritement the the power Civil the fact emerging the one series of the sordides .
honourable senators , the months , by the , the authorities russes the countdown six the " Vladivostok the the appr?taient the out of the country six kilogrammes the uranium sheltered to the sale the the foreign .
this uranium erroneous the one plant the the " d?mantelait some parts of the quota nuclear Soviet and the the terrorist or the the groups criminals have been the use the locations the the bombs nuclear small certainly , but the destructrices .
this is the case of threat of the kind of the need remain deliver and maintain the fulfilment a good service of security of security and a regular occurrence .
i commend the government . the commitment to the military , but I hope that more of details in the next budget federal .
the speech , the Throne specific the plans of the government to the arrival of the new millennium .
the said repeatedly that is the Minister and the government missing the vision .
he is the many of getting words in the speech , the Throne the Canadian soil the the new millennium .
i agree that the number again , about the transition , by the , the trade Ministerial and the access to Internet , but it is a not a vision overall to ensure the future of the Canada .
the marketing of the economies means that all the economies becoming the most of the interd?pendantes .
in the , whom , he not there will the the the " what a " purchased domestic the .
he not there will the the one only economy and a single market .
the economies , the market and the Competition not be not limited by the boundaries Finance or intention .
he not there will the Canadian sovereignty .
the - time , all the investors and people of business international critically continually the one of detailed the not have been the possible before the Canadian , the economies domestic , there was the Canadian the Canada .
the progress in the People the the Telecommunications , particularly the progress in the trade Ministerial , which the the investment can be taxed and the the decisions may be taken in millisecondes .
the capital can prevent in a country , in dealing , a moment .
the year , the us we were witnesses the - be the the Prime example of the impact of these criminals and the the trade Ministerial the the economy . the First the the Asia - the South - east and the the Pacific .
these major fuites the capital dance a vote of the - confidence by the investors international and the community of the business .
the impact the people feel the our attendance in the the country individual , there was the the Canada , and the the world world .
the Canadian , the Canadian crisis Asian , the years of the dollar Canadian . falling by the " the dollar American , the the cambistes the husband the most of $ American possible for the protection against the affected Asian .
our profound to the Far - East . suffered , the Canadian crisis . affects a drop of the price of the events of basic .
the capital and the business . the most linked by the geography , the time or the federally Finance .
a global or a government , not to defer not as the Banking , the financial , the courtiers the values charities and the agencies of cotation in the capitales financial the farm can do the subject , so and crises , he is true , the sanctions . unclear .
the so we do thing the - be not . , he not in reality not least , the Canada . the not the other option that the enfiler the the " what a " corset economic , the critical to all the the Canada is a good place where invest and to the the business . the years of the new millennium .
the art of managing will the examination . corset economic to the latest the situation . the Canada and the the Canadian , as to the people requirements and the protection of things which are special to the Canadian and the people of the country way of life , as a leadership , our system national the care of health .
what the the in the , the the time when we will address the new millennium , the Canada has many of the .
the debt overall the the levels federal , provincial and mayor is too high and continues to spending .
our level of tax Breaks future . burden excessive .
in spite of improvements important , the summer concerning the the years of the two years decades , our economy includes a great the regulations and the paperasserie .
we are still largely indirect the the resources natural .
about 40 per - the GDP the the Canada clauses of the trade , our resources natural .
he is the ever the press many obstacles to the trade , the the investment and the Canadian mobility the Canadian labour - the implementation of the country .
in spite of the progress payments progress the the years of the past years , our infrastructure of basic in the areas of the 150 the water , the the ?gouts and the the transportation , particularly in the great cities , require the the renovations and the the improvements important .
we must be more in the Canadian improve our productivity .
we must the make the in the areas of the education , the Canadian research and the the development to the full the kind of society innovatrice and adaptable the will not only survive but who will also vibrant the the years of the next millennium .
he is still a gap considerable of the the the Canada is the the the the the full .
the this regard , I commend the government , the way of commitment in the speech , the Throne the present the new a measure legislation to the protection of information personal and commercial in a Cosmos hamstrung and the goodies the signatures electronic .
the people initiatives are essential if the Canada and the Canadian want to the extent of benefit fully the the potential valued by the Internet and the trade Ministerial .
honourable senators , the ?vocation the the eye the money . When that the government . is committed in the speech , the Throne the end of talk the the threat new concerning the make the the Canadian , as the eye the the money .
the the Department of the Finance , the notice of Tuesday billion . $ , or as I , I read the the newspaper . morning of Tuesday , 40,000 billion . $ travelling each year smuggled the the Canada or by the University of the Canada .
the group of action financial the the eye the capital , the the composede 26 , the borders the Canada , the board European and the Council of cooperation the the Gulf Arab , the time criticized the U the the Canada .
the promise the in the speech , the Throne is encouraging .
however , we have the the railways the Canadian plates .
honourable senators , the fact that the speech , the Throne about insuffisamment the the problem of the Immigration ill?gale the the and the the Canada . the margin . g?n? .
we know that the Canadian be vibrant during the next millennium , the Canada is up to bring the the immigrants the the world world .
he is that potent that our country . atteigne not the objectives as the the number of immigrants received .
the Canada has drawn cent per - come to the in 1998 , the the years of the year 81 .
we seem to the the difficulties specific to bring the the workers and the the professional knowledgeable .
however , it is meant not the us we close to most of the problem growing the the Immigration ill?gale the the Canada , in emerging the various regions of the world .
he is a the one problem none , the the causes deep resident in our democratic the recognition of the status of Refugee .
honourable senators , the rectitude policy aspects difficult the meeting of a debate open and rationnel the our political and our proceedings related to the status of Refugee .
the human the lancerait a monopoly debate or the tie the question of quo quo short the risk of the qualifi?e the stereotypical or the anti - 1915 .
he not complain the way of note that the most of the immigrants ill?gaux not fuient not the persecution to their beliefs religious , political or other , but that is the Canadian and refugees recommendation improve their situation economic .
the same , he not complain the way of the out that these immigrants ill?gaux the excessively the bill , and that is the one very bad to the start a new life , the Canada .
i am quite proud that the committee Special recent the Canadian Transportation that I have defended the East and grants the problem growing the the Immigration ill?gale hosted the the Canada before the the not be very m?diatis? and not atteigne the summum the the m?diatisation the summer the .
the Immigration ill?gale the the Canada threat of integrity of the country , the Immigration .
those who call the coming to the Canada . the soumettant the all the procedures transfer of ill?gaux the threats .
the record as the one of the Canadian the Immigration ill?gale is the fact , non convergence .
the only those organizations are particularly m?chantes , but they are also divided very price to the immigrants , the the plans fiscal and staff , the privilege of the in America , the North .
a great many of these immigrants are reduced the Canadian servitude to pay their debts to the gangs criminals , the the " snakeheads the , the the people . the smuggled the the Canada .
i have been happy to learn that a judge the London the recent sentenced four passeurs the Canadian and disappointment the Throne variant of 7 and 14 years .
the the documents documents to the court , the passeurs had extorqu? about a year , $ the people clients .
the Krever has qualified their activity the m?chantes , occupation and unfeeling .
we do we , gift to human , clumsily the most of the Immigration ill?gale .
those who benefit of the Canadian our laxisme and the country approach na?ve the Canadian determination of the status of Refugee are the evidence criminals the the livrent the this activity .
we must recognize that the Immigration ill?gale not . not a problem strictly national .
if the Canada is proposing closely with the government American to modernize our civilization common for the 21 century , as the the march in the speech , the Throne , this modernization must be in the the our other boundaries becoming the poreuses to the organizations of passeurs .
the my opinion , the difficulty . section not in our laws , but in their the .
the problems of the people were fulfilled the numerous occasions .
the study excluded by the group of the single the Right by the former Minister of the Immigration and the the Immigration the agreement that he not there was not the system effective in the to whether the respect to the conditions cut by the RCMP the Immigration the the applicants the the status of Refugee .
in addition , the Department of the Immigration and the the Immigration not monitors not the corridors and attack the Canadian most of the applicants the the status of Refugee , there was the thousands of the the urgently a audition the federal - Immigration or the are the the stars the one expulsion .
the effect of training training the the applicants the the status of Refugee the the point of entry to the power determine the people have a Criminal judicial or the people are a threat to the safety of the state .
however , the RCMP the Immigration the said , the committee on Special that the formation and the equipment dactyloscopiques the people framework are such as the fingerprints that they smoke . " all for predatory outlive and the usual simply stored .
the result , we have the only not the new legislation or the , but the one will policy and the the resources necessary to the in the and apply to amend the the government existing .
the detention of immigrants ill?gaux is clearly , the sensitive .
lacking the the United - United and the Canadian and country , we do emprisonnons not the immigrants ill?gaux the least , the Canadian and why the word that they are the the offender or the people are a threat to the safety of the state .
the Minister of the Immigration and the the Immigration the coalition the Canadian detention of the immigrants ill?gaux because the people . the way . the difficulty .
it is therefore , the emprisonner would the the least contrary to the Charter of the rights and Freedoms .
the my argument , and I know that is not . not a difference popular - and daily ill?gaux the fact that is the difficulty .
they have injected and went violated the legislation Canadian of the Immigration and that should be a reason enough to the emprisonner to the their hearing respecting the Canadian aid of the status of Refugee .
however , the process must be putting .
the decisions are coming to time appropriate .
the not be not relevant to the people in the the months because the " lack of staff to work of the rapid .
finally , honourable senators , I commend the government . the be committed to strengthen the ability to the RCMP and the other organizations of Elite the threat to the safety public , the Canada and the work with the forces the the Order of the country .
this is commendable , but , I , I , he is trying to the " may proceed .
the that , I am anxious to see the details in the next budget .
honourable senators , the the approach to the new millennium , he is the thought the the per years in the
the century , the work . was International by a instability incredible and the the massacres sanglants , much account essentially the the nationalism inconsid?r? and the the extr?misme Signe .
this was also a century of progress , much .
the people who have lived in 1899 not reconna?traient the the world . today , the
he is hope that we have learned of the lessons of the century century and that the progress made us yield a new century , just , the d?chir? by the Oklahoma and the excesses of nationalism and the harsh , the Canadian freedom economic and political will respected .
if we have learned our lessons , the next century we r?servera the us and the the world world . the potential inimaginables .
finally , honourable senators , in the world complex to which we are followers , I wish to better . the opportunity to the government , the one of the power in the " to the the succ?deront .
he will miss the wisdom to succeed the the future , and the the by all the years identify .
the Honourable B . Alasdair Graham :
the same , I commend all the honourable senators , the part of the one of the most important debate parliamentarians of our history .
i thank the particular , the Canadian the government and the Leader of the Opposition for their good words .
i wish to say , the senator Lynch - Staunton and the all the honourable senators , I have I generosity the their patience , the their right mood and the Canadian of the the advice the " and the ill for the dark the issues and the Canadian and opportunities when the former - Government of the government has been called the part , the the years of the two years in the hour , the Canadian and trade time enough coast .
he is the person - be in some few opportunities the the the summer necessary to do call the the assistance of colleagues , but I hope that all the honourable senators price that I am I have tried to provide the information the most specific and the most full possible the government . the circumstances .
honourable senators , when Vaclav Havel , the Canadian the Republic tch?que , the way of Senator the the two Houses of the Parliament in the one recent visits to the Canada , he has spoken of a world . full community of a period of changes radical .
the Canadian , the value , the motion of humanity the , the the said , the and the state there for using the well public , leaving the rights and the liberties the ?panouir the their maximum . "
he has reported leads the Canada , the the very the new put allowing the matter of the best and the said that the the Ethics Canadian , removes the one deep respect in the country .
the Ethics Canadian is pervasive by many of the country , the Canadian values .
the chairman Chirac , the fact which was the the Summit of the Francophonie , the Universit , when he has described the Canada as the " a vast country , seeking and the Canadian and rules of coexisting in the peace and the forbearance the .
as the chairman Clinton , the the single the side , his prepared to the Mont - Tremblant and the subject with the heart of the importance historic the Canadian federation Canadian , we all , the ?coutions , we thought the the grounds tutelage the countries . was defective our country , the Canadian Army and the Canadian law social , the Canadian compassion and the the commitment to the people .
the commitment Canadian , the well public is a draft the the listed the the heart of this community , special .
he has made to our society approach , civilis?e and tol?rante a place . hope and the promise for the the $ the people of all the the world .
in listening to marry , His Excellency the Gouverneure general , the Canada , read the speech , the Throne regarding October the , he I , giving clear that the passion national permanent , the passion for a balanced and the the service of the people , the heart of the the us are and the emphasis of our origins , the , in mind , as vital and dynamic that the the first opportunity to our history .
the well , the ways , honourable senators , the speech , the Throne we , propuls?s in the future .
he makes the seaway , the Canadian , choosing to a real identity , the one real affiliation , the " all the values the future of Service of our identity national , this end of decade difficult and p?rilleuse certainly , but how passionnante and tireless the aventures .
now that the government has developed the the Order in the Finance public and that the economy . strong and the full necessity , we can proceed to a new era of the public financially responsible , but the face human .
the " the improvement continue to the health financial the the country , we are efforcerons more of increased the income available to the purchase Canadian and the WTO the the business of the country . as support the Competition in the economy based on the knowledge .
we have begun to ease the tax , before the removal of the deficit budget .
our strength balanced we , and the deficit the tax . " 16,5 billion . $ the three years and , by the same to the Canadian rayer600 $ Canadians , the roles of tax federal , the in the Canadian and investment key in the the areas as the acquisition of knowledge and the health , and that the assistance to the Victoria , the the areas which are really important to the Canadian . We know , the the cuts to taxes . Concludes that a vital the the ?quation .
the Canadian . expect to many more of the government .
they preventing the concept that the government . is that a percepteur the tax and a fund - that he not think that the the results of short term and the the return net .
the Canadian . " no - one 1954 of the rich and the poor .
the people have agreed to durs sacrificed the the past years , believing that they had the duty of the make the so that citizens of our great country , they have consistently the knowledge , the powers public that the assurance - 1986 Universal , by the , not . not n?gociable .
they have r?affirm? that the assurance - 1986 Universal is a backbone of the identity Canadian .
the the care of health affordable and the quality are a protracted the Canadian life , the Canada .
this is a step the country from the the " the Canadian compassion the fact , the Canada . in the unique .
in the speech , the Throne , the government Liberal Christianity the commitment firm the preserve the one of the best plans public . the world .
the the heart of our efforts in the Canadian Innovation the odd the instituts Canadian of the health , just the promotion of the research medical the Canadian rain technology the Canadian Technology in all the regions and all the biathlon and the starting a grant of $ million . $ .
the government is working with his partners provincial and other on the the approaches beneficial in the Canadian health , older , the assurance - 1980 and the benefit of the order to ensure that the Canadian regulatory the the best system of health possible .
honourable senators , we are the the direction of a new century .
the knowledge and the innovation are the pierres angulaires the Canadian success in the world informatis? .
the speech , the Throne we move a vision of a country , is prepared to go to possibilities valued by a world where the knowledge . synonyme the power .
in the village occurring , our researchers are in competition with those of the world world , and the not just with those in the international local .
they are in competition in a global , a market global .
we know , the the that the Canadian and effect important to the political government because the us Bosnia the one called the the international World , a race the Canadian vision national is vital , the the partnership play a role key and the the government deeply in the one structure for more dissidents the energy extraordinary the the Canadian of all the GST the Canadian society .
he has learned to this work active in partnership with our universities and our Laboratories , our industries ax?es the the knowledge , the provinces , our communities , and that our farm volunteers and our heads Cultural the people of the excellent and tremendous .
the government has recognized that all the Canadian be a lack of the acquisition continue to the knowledge and the the improvement of the promise that is the mechanization hamstrung .
we believe that the communities branch?es not have not and not have the the apanage the most of the the knowledge . synonyme the power .
they natural the all the Canadian .
our strength the legal the plug the Canadian will the the Canada . in the most branch? the the world and it would the the principle that the future of our country will closely tied to the creation of a society just and united in the possibility of access to the information .
in the part of this strategy , the the initiatives as Rescol , the Program of access community and the program Ordinateurs to the school the fishing the the Canada . Marchand a real democracy approach the the knowledge , a place where every the Canadian . the possibility of travel in the classroom the the response to the information .
step that the room of person is the extreme the country democracy approach the the knowledge , we have the Act up the TAGS Canadian to the equality of the opportunity , the the briefs the the hundreds of thousands of Canadians have 1998 , the prairies the grant to the savings , education , the grant to be the study and the scholarships the the millennium .
we have the in the one infrastructure beautiful the Canadian research .
this is why we aggravate our support the the respect to the advice granting and we are lan?ons in a new business audacieuse , the Canadian Airborne the the 2,500 $ chaires the awards , Research the the 21 century in the universities Canadian .
the chairman of the University of Toronto , Robert Pritchard , the indicated that this initiative to the only ?quivalait the repair the staff enseignant the one of university almost the the Order of the next , a full net of drain incommensurable .
as the Prime Minister of the said :
a place where a workshop widest and a good as the life will the fine , a place where our young understand that gain not . not only a question of the Canadian market , but , a question of value , the service and the commitment to our roots .
a country , the one vote moral and the the citizens are profoundly the jobs . society World sustainable and a world better enracin? in the soil rich the the humanisme .
this are our children who we bobbing that the
they are bobbing that the their engineering and their dreams , with their hopes and their debts , with their ability and their ingenuity , with their argument a frank the one , better .
however , the challenges the the looming the one of the size .
their responsibilities . huge .
honourable senators , the are themselves , our children , the need conqu?rir the future .
the government has made a commitment to the babies and the children of the Canada .
we are we undertook to their to the basis of the good up in the life .
we are we undertook to their quality of reprisal , the Canadian food and a workshop widest .
we want to the the parents of the the most of time that the people children , the months , looking their birth .
we want to the parents , the press reports to the the choice difficult to their responsibilities professional and shaped .
we want to the Right a system legal the will the government . " - be the the children , the Canadian separation or the outcome of the parents .
we want to more of money in the Economy , the families Canadian , reducing the tax .
yes , our children . the the rights .
they have the right to expect .
they have the right to dream .
they have the right to the equality in the wonderful country , is the selfless and the potential a symbol of hope and the promise for the the $ the people to the world , the Canada .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , before the make my comments in the debate on the speech , the Throne , I wish to the first provide my congratulations and my best wishes to the Governor the Gouverneure general , the beginning of the new mandate .
these 407 Canadians assume a great privilege and a huge responsibility .
they serve the one only 30 million . Canadians in our Parliament .
here , the few of the issues , not cessaient the " in the the spirit in handcuff the the speech , the Throne and the rapid the the Parliament : how the meaning the ship the the state of the most of the 407 parliamentarians Canadian , are working of the person ?
is the the the Canadian practice of the freedom is the strongest or more low ?
the Canada . we pass the country came to the Parliament be the best ?
in response to the issues , I have been brought to the conclusion that our Charter the the Canada sending the Canadian telecommunications . the so , trinity the institutions fundamental .
the most horrific making the the country , the Court Supreme the the Canada , is the target of minority corrosives the Canadian the Canadian some cercles .
some of the minority the most violent , the judicial are the fact , members intimidated the the other place .
in his answer to the speech , the Throne , the Opposition the the Liberal Party in the other place to the said :
... the courts have the most of the empi?t? the the prerogatives of the Parliament , the point where the person is that he is impossible to interpret the speech , the Throne before the have read the Canadian and court .
well , the honourable senators , some auditeurs the same way that raising .
the other . " - be found that is the one came original or charming .
personally , I do I do found that raising .
i do I do found in trouble the the Opposition the the Liberal Party in the other place . focus to bomb the criticism the courts of various representations to the judges upon the their assessment of the government taken by the governments federal , provincial or territorial , by the " the Charter of the rights and Freedoms .
this was as if the courts were in some sort did the the existence of the Charter Canadian of the rights and Freedoms .
i rappellerais quickly to the Canadian that he has learned the necessity of the two Houses of the Parliament and the nine legislatures legislation provincial to the Senate agreed to the Constitution of 1982 .
he is that we , Parliament , ?valuions the vision of the government and the program , in clauses to determine whether each of these programs achieving our courts in the the situations . difficult or less constant .
when I have travelled the speech , the Throne , no in the last . " the appointments that the government had another matter to provide that a program vacuum .
the government seems to the criticism political serious in tactical this strategy .
he set the the courts of shared constant the consistent the interpret the the legislation . They or too delivering .
the government . the not known to the Canadian enough to leadership , not the not have the vision policy and legislative necessary to do the so that the Parliament operating the Canadian to the " the country .
this , night more to the independence and the the role of the power judicial these games time , the motion that some levels of the feeling that understanding of the the should simpler of the power executive and the power judicial .
the honourable senators , followed . After the judgment that the record of court Supreme in the case Marshall .
this brings illegality some rights derogate the treaty and the Communist the the consequences . d?plorables in the province . I feel , the New - New .
during the time , the Prime Minister removed the possibility that the Court Supreme retienne the judgment in the case Marshall enough long to allow the the government . the the regulations necessary to reduce the levels of hostility .
the so we inquiries all the Republic this hostility , we were always the the actions with the question of interference policy in the Senate . the most colourful court of the country , the critical clear how the power executive begin to play the the muscle in the area judicial and the Canadian institutions , which was the country of the democracy Parliamentary .
honourable senators , he is harmful that a first minister ask the the courts of the people work of the " promote the system . the .
the bill is the bill .
he not be no , plier or the U to the it would the case of a party politics , is the the power .
the this separate the net of the executive and the judicial , he is added the reaction jerk the one of the Canadian parliamentarians , particularly to the other place .
since the time that I am the the Senate , I have rarely , and I am the the the Senate came , hear a call for another of emergency a problem serious the Order policy or social , with the " the provision of exemption of the Charter .
yet , we go often the people of the other place , the Canadian section of exemption the be used to limit a problem .
the Parliament must take the disclaimer when a moment proposal is worded .
honourable senators , I consider the Parliament as a the the three major institutions divesting the fiscal the Canadian freedom , the Canada .
a review of the number of days of the Canadian and various legislatures legislation and the the two Houses is very significantly .
let the the delay that the government has developed the meeting of rentr?e Parliamentary this fall .
the House of the House , the institution , is supposed incarner the democracy , the Canada , the in average , the 120 days each year .
some members of commissioners why they should be brief the be here , and think that is the one tradition loss of time , sitting , the Parliament for the the government to the power to the soucie not the brain the their view .
in the Canadian and the , the Canadian simply members of the government . Farmers retir?s the one of the example , supplementary the scores to the be voted the the power central .
these people - that Pages the rules parliamentarians as no - the the Canadian and predicates the bitter in the potential of objectives supporters .
he is also to the are the opinion that the Roman the the saints , otherwise , the Victoria Langevin , the first , for goodness the government and the decisions the are taken by the government of the the part of the Parliament .
why the Prime Minister and the ministers of the cabinet . " - they not the the Parliament , the
the answer is obvious , honourable senators ,
otherwise , Parliament of the ability to study of the government legislation and the important issues of appropriate . the technical , the summer used by the government of the usurping the prerogative of this institution .
a matter , by the , we give the evidence that the Victoria the the Centre . is not willing to allow the the Parliament of the population of the task .
if the " the touch the the context surrounding the Agreement final nisga' the , whose of the nation nisga' the and the province of British - British , the widespread that he has been signed by the two parties , the summer adopted by the Assembly legislation . the British - British and agreed . the Nisga' status .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
i must interrupt the Honourable Senator Kinsella and the attention that the period of time allocated for the speech . gone .
honourable senators , the authority to continue to the it leave ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , before the the Parliament , the the opportunity to analyze the treaty nisga' the , the Minister of the Foreign Indian the one . did .
the requirement of the Canadian and accountability to the Parliament irrite . the Prime Minister and the cabinet , the motion become the group of reflection private .
the the public . the cabinet , the Prime Minister . the summer . the be the Prime among his peers .
the nature complicity the the government . applaud , the all the levels .
the cabinet r?prime the participation policy and the contribution of the House of indexing - benchers , the the House of the Opposition , the the committee and the the citizens .
the the level basic , the accountability the accountability to the Parliament , the occupants of the Victoria Langevin is quasi nowhere .
this attack fundamental lanc?e , the responsibility to the Parliament is benign and deserves the the " the request , the speech , the Throne clarifie or not the fact that the government is still accountable to the Parliament .
in our existing the government , d?riv?e the same the Westminster , the responsibility initiated is the capstone cornerstone of the practice Parliamentary and , in the discarding the government , he is necessary rodents that the cabinet or the Prime Minister dominent the basis policy of the Parliament , the the members of the two Houses not be prepared consulted .
i wish to note the impuissance the the government to prevent the diminution of our system , in late the university Philip Norton the , issue of the failure of the government to the driver as the demands the principle of the responsibility , wrote that the the years , the instruments of the Parliament , are ?mouss?s .
he carried :
the government is also become more r?ticent the directors , Phalen the Canadian House .
... - ... huge powers centralis?s Revolution , the most that the " associate order to a dictatorship autocratique that the most of a government democratic .
the the "
the Parliament is the forum central to discuss the the use and the the abuse of the political .
i wish to go to the the third the " the service of our democracy , the motion ? " - that the Canadian and agencies volunteers and the government .
i have been Whip , honourable senators , the plight that the speech , the Throne not was no reference to this next traditions of the role of the organizations volunteers in the world .
the not find no support breaking or visionary of the organizations volunteers of the government . the government in the .
this is not the contrary .
almost all the promise that the " sur in the speech , the Throne the policy , a measure whatever business by the government central .
since the United Nations have said , year 2001 Persons international the the organizations volunteers , he I would , honourable senators , the the government would have to a continuing to do the Canadian the provision of our country . Rou the importance of the organizations volunteers , set .
in conclusion , honourable senators , I wish to the the professor Donald Savoie , the us we heard the number again , the other occasions , and the Hon. Beauchesne released recently , the CHST Governing from the Centre .
in a compelling tranchante the the powers of the Prime Minister and the the changes disasters in the powers to the Canada , the professor Savoie states :
the cabinet , the as the Parliament , is now beyond .
the real debates political , held in the in the same , and the motion also the case of the decisions the are often taken to the years of the meetings federal Provincial the the first ministers , for the meetings roadblocks that the first ministers held during the Polish the team Canada , in the board of the Prime Minister , the the Council Office , the the Department of the Finance , in the organizations international and the the years of mountains international .
no . , indicate that the human the welfare all the cartes , the the Prime Minister , and the organizations centraux the the basis of focusing the power policy , the centre , have the intent of change what the the Senate .
the Prime Minister of the Canada is a subject to the control institutional , the the least , the trade , the government , the the extradition of that the the supplementary .
the government . the change the discarding , the person . " that the frustration of the House , and sometimes the Canadian and senators , the not have no , that the the level of the implementation of the point of the political , and the the " it . the Canadian to date , this , the government , often , the entire no .
honourable senators , the speech , the Throne is the provision the basis to the government of the make the Canadian , the Canadian , the country and the giving the tone the the functioning of this institution .
he is clear that the basis , the country democracy Parliamentary are species and that the " the not the great - something for drama the damage .
the Honourable Mabel DeWare :
honourable senators , we , the the Senate , we all very conscious of the importance of the post post as to the Canadian respond to the the Canada in the whole .
those who fr?quentent the colleges , the universities and other institutions of post post in terms of the benefits incommensurables .
it includes the benefits financial the basis to the graduates of securing the one of the life better to them , the and their families .
it includes the Canadian and benefits of tangibles but the so important , under the quality of life , the basis also to the graduates of dabbling a role essential in the transition of their communities .
these benefits to transmettent then , the economy and the Canadian society Canadian the Canadian tax , by the , the revenues tax . high , the economies of cost of the program social and the cohesion social increased .
the most important to our attendance is the advantage competitive that a public active educated , the the Canada in the economy World .
the business of the areas . full growth of the knowledge and the Canadian Technology , technology investiront the likely in a country where they can cause of the graduates . trained ?moulus the fine institutions of post post .
he is clear that the government , does the so , the absolute the the post post the the Canada .
in the speech , the Throne , he has recognized the the advantage that is to the Canada . labour - the implementation the motion of the educated to the world . .
the government has also stated that , the the years of the three years in the the the way of the government to make party , this advantage .
the speech , the Throne the importance of the government , upgraded the transition the savings , education for the children and the reference to scholarships the students Canadian of the millennium the , the the government , marine the matter . affordable the students coll?giales and university .
he has also indicated the break the the provision of Tax the the burden ?tudiantes and the improvement of the government tax to promote the learning continuous .
in the , I believe that he has spoken of the strategy to the ?voquant the whole of these measures .
the government , now that he is up to the support the this strategy , anti many initiatives .
the speech , the Throne was the great informed that the government , "
... outdated the the partnership with the other provincial , the organizations public and private , the with the Canadian and the health , to the establishing a plan of action national , the Canadian expertise and the learning to leXXIe century .
this plan put the focus on the learning continuous , the tone the the problem of the low literacy the the chronic and provide the the citizens of information , they have the to take the the decisions pressed the view of parfaire their expertise .
honourable senators , the speech , the Throne the purpose three components of the plan of action , but I hope do that the other . there ajouteront soon .
the specific , the government has said that he suddenly with his partners to the "
d to the the Canadian of finance the nervousness the learning continuous ; and
d provide the the information to the international the the Canada , the market . the work , the skills necessary and the potential of training to the Canadian a grain single , accessible by Internet , by telephone , or in one in all the communities . the country .
honourable senators , all these measures to be very valid .
a plan in the three areas worry , the people were cern?s the , the close to both years , the committee on Special the the post post , the right ignore and the attendue been mothballed .
i wish to the Yukon the government . the be committed to improve the infrastructure of the knowledge , creating the the instituts Canadian of research , health , in legal the support the the advice granting and the awesome the universities and the instituts the research , the Canada , using the collaboration international the federal - rescue , the so , further , the I , I , rather obscurs .
after the , the LATE - D . a place in key to the reference the committee on Special the the post post .
i have found with pleasure , the same the number recommendations of our committee , the government seems recognize that he worth the only to bring the the researchers the Prime the and the occasional our graduates to continue their careers to the Canada is that the the exiler .
we must make the situation . appealing to the our graduates of education secondary remain the the Canada to the government . advantage competitive that we have a " our coast , the implementation educated .
the government . the attention to the the motion leave to the brain the the brain the the Canada , the the media speak much , this will the particular timely .
in a study the the the beginning recently , the Conference Board of the Canada has said that the brain the the brain , the motion of the in the important , threatens the vider the pool of submarine qualified to the Canada .
the most , the Prime Federation of Nortel , John Roth , the reference to his hearing will leave of Canada , no . is the to eradicate the Spring the capital human .
the out that he remains to the Canada , abolishing per - and stakeholders senior the leading , he would he , the the daily Ottawa Citizen of the 12 November , the the following :
the event , the one seat social the the Canada , the most of the Canadian the team of the leaders of the company is part ?
the government . the fact that 18 per employees of Nortel work , the Canada and that , each year , the company commitment to quarter of the engineers graduates trained the the Canada , the not be to this , the mighty .
the Statistics Canada , the " the criticized for the homes the importance of the brain the the brain , the liver that the graduates Canadian , the pertinent to the south of the border . " and best , the most highly .
the so many cases . was relev?es to explain this migration tragic , he is clear that the system of post post the the Canada is a unifying .
i remember the the honourable senators , the Ottawa Citizen of the 12 November attribuait , Mr. Roth the use next :
the quality of the dipl?mes the art and the technology Achievement the the Canada is good , but I fear that it is declining the case of the funding inad?quat the the system of education .
honourable senators , we must be to the the government that the Liberal quiet in the speech , the Throne backed , as the said , the , for the " a strategy administered the operating the advantage that is to the Canada . labour - the implementation the motion of the educated to the world . .
in the , a time and the implementation , this strategy suffice it to maintain the quality of our coast , the implementation educated ?
i think that he is to many more in the area of the post post to achieve the results that the government . the regulations .
i would favourite that the speech , the Throne we move a little of cancer to enrober these words , the way , the wish rassurants .
i would be better appreciate that he is that the Canadian some sectors of the post post that the government seems to complete overlooked , the the areas which , the my opinion , seeks a vital capital if we want advance the the plan of the knowledge , the direction of the 21 century and not . run a warning or , with a little of opportunity , to tell the the Act , the .
in the context of the comments made Mr. John Roth , the leading , I wish to the particular , the funding of the post post the the Canada .
the committee which I am the the qualified the extremely priority the assistance to the government , and the provinces encouraged to the post post .
the committee has also recommend that the the government , the first , digging the respect to set provincial , renouvelle the hard commitment in the area of the post post the .
the subamendment , funding of the universities and colleges Canadian , due to the " and cut to the CHST Canadian , the Canadian health and the program social , the Communist , and other things , a continuing the the costs of tuition , a crowded the the equipment and the the infrastructure verbal and that a inability of attention of the Canadian the body professoral the most worthy in the institutions secondary the one coast to the other .
the costs of tuition high seasons , the matter of post post inaccessible the Canadian many students Canadian .
the perspective of the Hon. graduated and the be the cribl? the worst debts the students , the scholarships the the millennium . seasons no - down . " , by the , the one part dissuasif crucial .
the the motion is the end of the loans and the other forms of the " the provision of the students , he is however limit the amounts that a student should be the borrowing .
i am m?fie the Canadian promise that the the government in the speech , the Throne the transition the funding of the education permanent .
the the manner simply to the students , efficient more of money and the taxpayer their debt , I do believe that the the Senate . solution .
this would put the hub the the boeufs .
however , if the government . the Canadian to more of scholarships or the francophonie correspondence the debt , this promise I para?tra the positive .
the Canadian will impatients the look at the years of the two years in the the the government has the the fair to the spirit .
in addition , we have touched forward to see how the government and his partners agreements in the , as the rules the speech , the Throne , the the skills of the skills suive the pace of the evolution of the economy .
i hope do that this is the quantity not to cerner the highest , the arts and the jobs in which is a need to compete in the years , in the possibility that the one of important .
this initiative should not anytime the Canadian and the facts to the help the students , to the education and the formation to the island these needs .
i the said , the Canadian follow the close to the the government , will the the years of the two years in the this regard .
i believe that the Canadian . should not have the northern two years before the the government offered the promise that he has made in the speech , the Throne the the post post .
i remember the the government that he is that the date in the area critical .
i remember , the the honourable that is the Canadian the committee is already old the two years and that he was none of the table .
the senator Graham has been very generous the promise the the future of the education . the Canada .
he is very eloquent .
he is the two years , the are the the words of despair that the students , the educators and the researchers we had Tongues the the state of the education . the Canada .
this is the not a lot pleasant .
he is therefore , the the government consider the education as a priority in the program for the new century .
i must do congratulate the senator Graham for the comments that he has made today , the
honourable senators , I could speak briefly the the education post and the the education permanent , the are there , the issues , I held in heart .
i hope the have the opportunity to a compassionate future .
i will not to the the other aspects of the speech , the Throne that I wish to the the motion to say , bless and the right to visit the the children .
he is , the Canadian first , the make a number historic .
i have had the honour to be a the the committee Joint Special the Canadian Access and the right to visit the the children , set in October 1997 .
the government had established . the order to fulfil a promise that he was made to the government that the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , the I was chairman of the time , consider the new lines guidelines federal - the pension Article to children .
the lines the Canadian the committee , as five parties , the then spent the year next , hear , the hundreds of witnesses and the study of serious questions on the families affected by a separate or a desire .
in December 1998 , the committee has tabled the report entitled : " Integrity the love of the children , the
the report stamping a long series of recommendations to the recentrer the the child the system adversatif the U to the disclaimer and the right to visit the the children .
the most important recommendation proposed the the changes recognizing that the mother and the father whatever all of up to play a role is in the life of their children .
these recommendations were centr?es the the concept of dire shared , the the means the decision of making joint and the agreement between the parents as the the share of the time and the the Income r?sidentiels .
the " the disclaimer shared , the father and the mother remain active west in the care , to the the children .
in May 1998 , the Minister federal - the Justice the article the answer detailed the the government to the report of the committee .
i have been pleased to learn that the government . reflected the support the major recommendations of the committee ' a approach to the right to the family , centr?e the the child in the case of separation and the outcome .
we were all the f?briles , and the exalt?s , the Order the us we learned that the Minister would put in the our recommendations .
... with his partners provincial and territorial , he is emploiera the reform the right to the family and the strengthening the plans of support the the families to the , in the the situations the separation or the outcome , priority the product to the needs and the the best interests of the children .
this or less clear that the government does the Canadian Access the children and the access to those of the structure a vital capital for the Canadian and Canadians and that the concerns related to the system of the dispara?tront not .
i hope that the government has the intent of speed his the in the planned the the recommendations on the share of the task parentale contained in the report , chapter the love of the children , the
after the , the speech , the Throne bilingual usually the priorities of the government to the session the the soup the point of the .
the government . Korean recent recommendation that the the election federal election will election of this 18 months , the prior 2002 , the Canadian be the northern the Canadian and progress the quick .
i hope that is not have not the entire hopes , but , the the the U performance the the government in the the concerns of the Canadian Access and the access , I have the fear that they not be disappointed .
however , the person , expect .
the - time , the the hundreds of children . will not heard and ressentiront the pain of consumer bris?s .
honourable senators , I am delighted to have had the opportunity to speak on the two questions of the recent speech , the Throne , the in contains , the course , and the other .
the other senators , have a well pointed some aspects of the speech and the other , imiteront , as the
in turn of the , I wish express the hope that the government listen and that he will the Canadian and concerns . hands and the the suggestions reasonable the my colleagues myself , the side - the Canadian the chamber .
bill to the Act , Assent Royal
second reading of Second the the debate
the honourable senators , I must tell the first , the the the bill to the not . not .
lacking the the midst the people circul? recently in the media and the , he not take the the removal of the ceremony the Canadian Assent Royal such as we , know and the motion observed here for 1867 .
the bill to the , being the the discretionary the ceremony traditional , pourvoit the one point different , the knowledge of statement written , such a similar to the road to the U - Parliamentary and the Canadian and country . the Commonwealth .
the meeting of the ceremony traditional would ever in the case of the Prime bill to the Canadian ambassador the last of a session and the the least a time , in civil .
the honourable senators , were here , the time . recall that a bill to the " in close identical to the bill to the S - 7 , the bill to the S - 19 , the summer the " the Senate by the senator Murray , then Leader of the government , in July 1988 .
the senator Doody the open the debate on the reading of the second reading some day , later .
the debate had gained , September , the summer of short term , the priorities of the majority of the Senate were then , and not , not foreign to the disbanding of the Parliament , 1 October .
the arguments advanced by the senator Doody the , the clearing years . , solid today , and a great the Canadian my argument are ill the the biblical .
the last effort in the meaning the summer . " the Senate to the years of the last session before the be , he also , Tibet the Canadian prorogation .
my remarks will therefore similar to those that I had made to the time .
goodness the ceremony the Canadian Assent Royal such as we , know and allow a statement written as NATO is a subject to the summer raised in the Senate to the many occasions .
in 1983 , the senator Frith the report of inquiry regarding the desirability of thanks to the procedures of Alternative to the statement of the Royal Assent to the bills of the .
the Canadian , the one recommendation the in March 1985 by the committee Special the Canadian Army the Canadian House of the House , the committee McGrath , as the the adoption of a new process for the Royal Assent , the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules , chaired by the senator Molgat , the recommendation of the changes transmission in the same sense .
a second careful the the debate on the report presented by the senator Molgat indicates a support generally for the idea , but a The as the Canadian to the Canadian to the application .
the the thought a solution . extending the bill to the S - 19 earlier , earlier , a bill to the the motion death to the Order of the Canadian the prorogation less of three months , later .
the bill to the S - 7 , as the the fact , bill to the S - 19 , incorporates the principles of the report .
the article 5 , the Act , section body that the Royal Assent thus , the date of entry , into the one bill , the Canadian condition that no no other date . the tenth .
the the Canadian ceremony the Canadian Assent Royal as such a the armed in any " the bill , the book the precincts the giving a descriptif .
the Clerk Deputy of the Senate is responsible for the organization mat?rielle .
the Canada is the only country . the sovereign this ceremony official the evaluation the presence of the sovereign or the the Governor General or the their visit .
the report McGrath Appointments that the the Canada continues to do call the one practice 1967 by the Parliament British the 1967 .
in the , no other countries , the Commonwealth not the the surtax . "
the the U - Parliamentary , the Royal Assent . required to make the the monarque to the 1541 , when the Lords commissioners the summer representing the portion of requiring .
as we , we all , the Parliament , plus the three entities , the Queen , the Senate and the House of the House , each the vital to the governing the one bill to the .
our departed the Canadian Assent Royal rassemble these entities to the last reading of the process time long , reciting the adoption of a bill to the .
the the Canadian Queen . refuses not the Royal , he is the Canadian , the authority .
a commentateur the actions that the Royal Assent is still a formality necessary , but not the most that a formality .
i am , the as the other , the the the should be a grand important . the papacy a ceremony the routine the not invest that a low curiosity the most of the odd the in the witnesses by accident .
too often , the Governor General . " be present , and the motion difficult and clumsily the same a Governor General Acting the short notice .
too often , the Acting must be too , vision of the time convenue , in the Canadian proceedings incidental the the Senate .
the House of the usual the many of the Allison , particularly if the Royal is scheduled , the adjournment of the House .
a Royal Assent given later , Thursday , the afternoon means that the Canadian senators will greatly .
he stunning a climate of indifference , rather than the respect , to a ceremony the , the the it be in the part of leading , is nevertheless essential , and the us remember the evolution of the system Parliamentary the the years of the centuries .
some accommodation that the Royal Assent is archaic and should be just be brought .
i do I bothersome not in the debate today , the preamble to say that , in the extent the Canadian Assent Royal is exig?e , staffs - the as it . deserves the subject to the ceremony with respect to the Canadian . the it means , rather than the Canadian consider as a bothersome inopportune the the Senate parliamentarians .
the would the the not proper the deficit the number of the renovations traditional the the years of a session ?
in providing a procedure different , the Parliament approuverait , in the , the importance of the ceremony traditional that is the Royal Assent , in the one occasion special , the planned and the reason assisteraient many people , rather than a requirement the Canadian repetition dilue the Resolution .
the Opposition to the bill to the disease of those who suffer the the not be the the pre - the end of the Peigan such as we , know , today .
the bill to the S - 7 has yet the Canadian . fears .
the other grounds the motion put is the WTO a Royal Assent , traditional the the opportunity , when he is difficult to the knowledge of the suggested the one time , it to all , and the " to the the , the most that a few of Parliament , there meetings .
this problem become more than precinct when the House , in the part of the renovations the Canadian City Parliamentary , moves in the Victoria the the West , and will followed by the Senate when it retournera in the Victoria the the Centre .
the following I , he is a that the one reason enough to study carefully . C - the .
honourable senators , I have made field of the not to a point long and detailed the vote of the bill to the S - 7 , the Canadian , the the accounting the Order General suffiraient the demand the public .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Cools , the debate is adjourned . )
the communities French and acadiennes out Quebec
the seriousness of the services in French - Inquiry - Adjourned the the debate
the Honourable Jean - Maurice Simard , with the opinion , Wednesday 3 November 99 :
honourable senators , such as aware of the two leaderships the this chamber , and I hope that all the honourable will the agreement , I recognize the honourable the my colleague , the senator Jean - Claude Rivest , for reading my speech .
my speech the exc?der the time Allocation the ten minutes .
the Honourable Jean - Claude Rivest :
honourable senators , I wish to first , the the pleasure , I have the " associate the the speech , the one way a little unusual , in the part of the Orders of this chamber .
as the Honourable Senator Simard , the the indication , he I was asked the giving reading of the communication that he did make the the Senate to the opportunity to the tabling of a report extremely default .
i urge the same the whole of the honourable senators , in the knowledge .
this is really a reflection . thorough and very document?e the Canadian the Canadian the senator Simard the Canadian condition of the communities French and acadiennes the the Canada .
the Hon. the chairman :
honourable senators , the leave is the it leave ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Rivest :
honourable senators , I am question to you today , for you respecting the one bacterial the importance looking the importance to me and the the country .
i wish you about the one issue , I mean to heart has always , a question of the most fundamental in the I have enough to the government . my action policy : the development and the francophone the the communities French and acadiennes the the Canada .
the the term of a reflection personal the number months , immediately the research and the consultation serious and highway , I would states that my concern as the the prospects of future of these communities are greatly if great that I venture you about the one emergency national .
when I would mean the emergency , when I say that it is the dispute national , I am based only one of the result of our research , but I puise , in the baggage the knowledge and the experience that the " myth the most of 30 years of life public .
i am considers the this instinct that we d?veloppons all the success , accomplish , the the best of our options , the the motion to the TAGS the country outraged the .
the first , in my be , I said that if we do things . , the following , with the Canadian conviction and the energy the the Parliament , the the country , are knowledgeable , he will soon too late .
we will , by refusal of that , by refusing , in the comfort the the paradigmes the our tours the ivoire political , failed to promise of a country , would have the so many , the the one only had the courage of the be .
the the so , a day , whatever destroyed the communities French and acadiennes , the people in the links a proud Canadian whose and respected across the the world , the will the great the because the the leaders of their country . will turned the walk .
the motion ? the not the ultimate paradox ?
we run the subject the us to the the raises the professionalism , the respect and the the envy of the Canadian planet .
we have fear of the " and Canadians that the tremendous f?d?ratif the the view emerging their country . a tremendous the one tolerance , much , and two aboriginal vou?s the the principle of their equality step .
the the direction of the year 2000 , we doing CPAs the the dinosaures id?ologues the farm we bring to a method of man the the Canada . nine provinces on 10 , committed r?solument the Canadian , the the anglicisation the the corporation and the all its members , francophones , aboriginal or newly arrived .
a political , we , led . the " is Mr. Andr Laurendeau , the Canadian Comission Royal the inquiry on the Laurendeau and the virtues , the types , he is the Canadian . the Canadian three decades , the Canadian worse crisis . our history , the same the the Canada .
in terms , if the " no single not the Canadian crisis , the motion that it is there is the
if the " no admet not the Canadian the Canadian and communities French and acadiennes the the Canada has reached a point critical , the not sentira not the need to do what the the Senate to the Competition .
if the " no , no , the not be not to do proviso the have the somewhat the .
the first expected to the best in the best of the mondes - as the one conte the f?es .
but , honourable senators , the not to touch not at the
the consigne is that if we are taisons , the the world . the mouths .
this , if the the when the leaders of these communities osent eat the Hon. the temerity the abuse the people are victims , the the instructions of the mouths .
shirts !
the making the first , feindre the Victoria their livelihood .
but a time , abuse at the the unanimous timides past , a time , the Canadian and press estomp? , the house move these fauteurs the unrest French , the Order , in their the understanding that the things golden . as if the " no brasse not too , chaloupe .
the effect of French language in hostages the the power .
this government , the should be the ultimate advocate , the government which responsibility to the Constitution , 60 and moral the make commitments to the Canadian . In , the in the " and the private that the the sin .
the only refuses the Canadian to the but the power federal and Western that the people are the most vulnerable .
the claim their funding .
the the leaders French , and proud , but the most of the hungry , altering soon . the people have the make the people want out of this Grosse .
as the said : they rentrent in the rank , they realized submitted .
the their held that the things can the well , and many more , the make the in deep the , the people avanceront the vaccine as it .
the most r?calcitrants are ?cart?s , the Main to r?gner .
i know that he is the the midst you , and collaboration in the other place , the the offusqueront the kind of the
you , empresserez the flag the program Works the the support of the communities . languages official , and the milllions the $ the the , rattachent .
you we parlerez the the success of this Francophonie , the the livelihood the Canadian Francophonie proclaimed by the government , the the Summit of the Acadie the Universit , the the Olympics the Canadian Francophonie meet the the year 2001 , this same , in the region . the capital national .
the the vantera the have celebrated the tenth anniversary of the amendment to the Act , the Official Languages , the NHL the the government , a responsibility increased responsibility to minority .
i applaudirai and I would say : " Bravo ! the
obviously , the are the talk and good initiatives .
but I refuserai the 1958 the I , imbu the Canadian satisfaction of the duty work , as the other in the Parliament , tent?s the the make .
the country real , the more to do , because the Canadian the railways and the the games , he is the will always the certainty the populace .
but no government . will never the glorifier the numerous the the kind , when the in the tranch?es , the the French - a brave implacable continue to fight against the the forces , dollar the the an?antir .
you you we do all the most attractive celebrations the the world , it is r?ussira have the smuggled the truth of a government , merely the support these francophones , then , the motion of responsibility constitutional the the make .
the " the level school , the struggles not have not yet finies .
you not bringing not the congratulations the question of the I see the governments provincial the belief the the d?sengagement the the federal responsibility to minority to the status of the the d?lestages the responsibility to eliminate or threaten the learning of the French .
you not allowed have changed the reality fact that , the Canadian 30 years after the adoption of the Act , the Official Languages , the equality of the opportunity , the equality of the Aboriginal , real or attached , is far the be excluded .
you not allowed have we do forget that , the Canadian 30 years after the Canadian Wheat Laurendeau - Dunton that recommendation the Organization of the Laurendeau official to the governments of the New - New , the the Ontario and the the Manitoba , a single the the provinces , agreed to the make .
the most bigger , the most puissante , the province , live the half of all the French - the foreign the the Quebec refuses , the goodies the rights of the minority franco - law in the Constitution .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Rivest :
as the the Manitoba , he will collect the Court Supreme to the make that the it gouvernait been almost a century in the ill?galit? total , the Middle the Somalia disgracieux the 1984 , the Canadian hounding of some politicians provincial the d?cha?nait , the Francos - Manitobans .
we should rougir the shame the feeling that the the time when I would mean , a Franco - Ontarienne the the name of Gis?le Lalonde , with a small team , sillonne this great province , leaving , for gain the the unanimous the Canadian , the the ench?ssement the the rights of the French - the Ontario in the Constitution .
the Department Heritage Canada , the the the money for the make , I direz - you ?
i d?fie the the the Senate in the Parliament of work . the L Lalonde is the seaway the success with a budget of 35 $ $ .
the honourable requesting that the the focus to genoux the that the
you requesting that the Franco - Ontarians that ?ternellement generosity , when we are giving the the bouch?es the railways to do our work !
the would the the not to us to go thoughts the message of the Francophonie across the the Canada ?
the amount of the grant leave the the Department of the Heritage Canada , the movement rehabilitated Constitution . so risible that the would tried to believe that the the the product . souhaitant that he ?chouerait .
this was hard know the people of the trempe the ones and the most of the beleaguered the attention of conducting , to the fight . .
this grant not . - it is , however , nowhere poised the the battle of the federal in the money leave to the communities . languages official ?
the motion of the principle of the ?quivalence , yet spent by the Court Supreme in the Supreme Mah? ?
how can the " mea that the communities so that developing when they not have benefited the the program of the state Canadian , as the in medicine the majority ?
yet , enrolled their trajet the president , the French - the Canada continues to the higher , as the the cerfs - volants , the the wind , the all the kind .
they have thought that the , when he and the said that they were the the citizens citizens , the the citizens . the full , the the Canada was also the country . the French , the people . the fullest their place .
they the people so thought that is the this belief conviction the operation of the attention to the struggle today , the in the hope that , earlier , later , their leaders , joindront the one , in real allies and the in red m?c?nes , for Donna the implementation that they have forgotten the enabling .
the time . time to us , in the Parliament , the state , our voice , all our efforts , all our means to those and those who , by the strength of the genuine , within the and always the pioneers the history .
this people exists the die .
honourable senators , I would ask supplied the comments the report that I have brought the early today , the
this is a job seriously , sincere , the claim and martyrdom the rhetoric .
i would ask the teachers the spirit open the peoples these headlines , the teachers your eyes and your coeurs open .
some states , as some of the comments that I wish to the , not just not you wish .
we can do we .
we must act .
i would ask the thought the the spark , the Canadian page 38 of the report , the the preamble as follows :
he is surprising the plight that , in spite of the coverage outrage , the objective , the " usually and the paying the controversy that the rapporter the good news , the opinion public Canadian , as the widespread a compelling the the professor Stacy Churchill , is heavy strongly in favour of the political the the Official Languages to the years of the 25 , 30 years in the
the analysis of the so led to the conclusion that the authorities government . miserably failed in their attempts in the Canadian tell the Canadian of this support .
this is the cover the best touch the the country .
that is the the the that we said ?
the my opinion , it is that the only the the Canadian of French version agreeable that the French have their place among themselves , with their institutions and their services public , but that the only draw the the communities minority the the public . the corporation , as part of their own identity Canadian .
the Canadian to them means , and other , except that around the us , the other Canadians chairperson the living in the one or the other . the Official Languages .
it means , the the Canadian understand the difference between the Laurendeau individual and the linguistic duality .
human not to the anyone of travelling and the subject of two languages official , although we can assume that the one , Inc. , the would course , motivated .
i would ask , honourable senators , the challenges . You the the problem . the state Canadian .
the graduates is today , looks to a recognition puissante , r?solue and irr?versible the Canadian francophonie Canadian .
the time . time , the " and actions , the seat and the Star a way down the vote of the equality of the French and the the English - the Canada .
former - Minister of the Finance . my province , I would the last , identify the us retournions the the folles Estimates , we have given the deficits the one from the press recent .
but the government is currently in Government financial solutions to 400 to invest in the construction of the system institutional the will the the communities . opportunity equal the success .
it is the one in the Donna that we have multitude the the abandonment .
as the I , I believe that this Investment in our volunteers speaking in the one of the would never have the cut or frein? .
the most of the , all the Canadian holdings the altar the the Laurendeau and the the Evolution .
they have seen the people inflicted , the Universit , recently , how a reputation of opening and the federal language their faces the the doors stood ferm?es the the world , particularly the the European , this superpuissance economic , become .
they have heard the Speaker of the France retort a Canada tolerant , rather than the voluntary the French - the Quebec , the separation - that the was the - that the only remember that many of the one of the one such visitor .
the most of the Canadian people of the majority , as the the concerned , the diminution cultural and language of their fellow minority .
they include the one of the the communities French . is the the country which they are so proud .
the the view , in the case of the hospital Montfort , by the , the the welfare in?dites and inesp?r?es of the community franco - law and the the members of the community English - that province and the same the the Canada .
that expression - we to understand that the people we , targets ?
that expect the governments of the country and the the provinces for that the the new generations . " the Canadian flowery language destructives , the the motion of the move the other things , the building with confidence the the basis that we have jet?es the , the Thirty years ?
memories of the only why , the the years of the sixties years 60 , the board Laurendeau - Dunton speaking of the crisis the most serious the country history .
this is that they had the the the country was the the ship the the winds , the the main questions of the actions radical , and quickly , if the " applauding , the Canada survive the the d?chirements the the mena?aient .
the most of the Canadian . , the the Quebec , the were always identified as Canadians , Fran?ais McGrath now , that Quebecers the first , if exclusively .
the utmost not electing the Canadian be minoris?s the the Canada , they deviendraient dispelled the one .
the Canadian , the , they conc?daient that they not have been the full the in the Canada , their fellow had suffered all the affronts , that the the education . French was still ill?gale .
the " bitter the the us . Higher the Canadian the the us greatest today , the
the first ministers provincial understand the people . the intolerance historic the people own government is a the the suggestions the the s?paratisme Quebec ?
the government . Ottawa includes the the the above - deserved the all the savantes strategies , the the plans A . B or C , these nasty separatists , he would be the be brought by the pre ?
how the sovereignists r?vent the one country . This because the " no , never wanted to give the the their conclusions , because the " the slaughter their dream the " trial the political assimilatrices ?
honourable senators , I do you ask not the back in trouble .
however , I would ask the honourable remember , the thrust your wisdom and your reflection of Present historic .
the report that I would commend contains 42 recommendations , the 10 recommendations major the CCN the part of the plan of growers that we would propose to the communities French and acadiennes the the Canada .
the task seems huge , the challenge insurmontable , but it is the Canadian the Canadian and people of the country .
he is the blood the , the country , the
this is a bill to society emballant , positive and weaknesses .
but the the courage of the make , the that , the the the us represent , the the finest d?cor the us live . " no , the
when the walls the the Parliament , Tibet those of the silent , the the silent the the fate of the most vulnerable , we have lost our right to be .
i have done that you , ?couterez .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . )
( the Senate . adjourned . the 1998 17 November 99 , the 13 at 1:30 . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 8
the 1998 17 November 99
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the dumping
Maxwell Tabled '
the Nova Scotia Nova
the price international and national successes by the people of Lunenburg
the reform of the Senate
the Agriculture
the hemp cultivation - Effect obstacles to the export to the United - United
the year international the the people seniors
business routine
the union monetary European
tabling of the report of the committee , the business foreign
transport and Communications
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
society . R the the Cape - Breton
tabling of the Prime report of the committee Special
the Committee of Selection
introduction of the fifth report
the freedom religious the China , report with the pactes international the the United Nations
notice of inquiry
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the resources natural
the closure of the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape - Conformity informed the the synthetic the fund - Government Position of the government
the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape - Conformity bill to the fact disbanding - Effect consequences for the relatively and the staff
the Defence down
the closure of the army Cornwallis - Government clawback of the windows comm?moratifs the Canadian chapelleSt. George' s
the replacement of the helicopters Sea King - Government Position of the credit , Donkin
the United Nations
the proposal of the Liberal Party of reassess the participation of the Canada - Government Position of the government
the health
the power to regulate the events magnitude in the targets the ?quarrissage - Government Position of the government
on business orders
the Senate . the Senate
the Committee of Selection
the Canadian the fifth report
the Act , the border judicial
bill to the Second - Second Reading
referred to the committee
visitors in Gallery
business legal and Constitutional
notice of Motion asking the authority to use of documents and evidence collected in the the study of the bill to the previous to the purpose of the study of the bill to the present
visitors in Gallery
business foreign
leave to the committee , until the date of closer the Hon. the final the Canadian amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty the the Atlantic North
the Senate . the Senate
the Estimates , the Estimates , 1999 - 2000
leave granted to the committee , the Finance Finance . to the Estimates Supplementary ( A )
the Estimates , the Estimates , 1999 - 2000
referred to the credit 25a the the Council Office the the committee Joint Committee of the Official Languages
the Estimates , the Estimates , 1999 - 2000
referred to the credit 10a the the Council Office the the committee Joint Committee of the Library of the talking
the Code offence - Act , the system Correctional and the implementation of freedom the condition
bill to the Second - Second Reading - Adjourned the the debate
the Committee of Selection
the Canadian the third report of Sittings of the article
business legal and Constitutional
motion requesting the authority to use of documents and evidence collected in the the examination of the bill to the previous to the study of the bill to the present , Charge the the debate
the Canadian the Speaker
the Conference on the equality and the participation of the women in the life public
inquiry
the Evolution and the marketing
inquiry
the situation . the aboriginal and their future
inquiry - Adjourned the the debate
business Social , Science and Technology
leave to the committee , sitting , the time that the Senate
transport and Communications
leave to the committee , sitting , the time that the Senate
the Transportation of specifications the the Environment to the children
the Canadian the motion of predatory
the Senate
the 1998 17 November 99
the Chair . Chair . In at 1:30 , the Speaker , the the Chair .
prayers .
the Nova Scotia Nova
the price international and national successes by the people of Lunenburg
the Honourable Wilfred P . Moore :
honourable senators , I rise today , for branches the price international and national that the observations recently the city of Lunenburg , Nova Scotia Nova and his citizens .
the Friday 5 November 99 , the city of Lunenburg the positive the price of the Port of the year , the American Sail Training Association , the Newport , the the Rhode Island , the Canadian , ranging - Seventh meeting Annual Conference , Boston .
the members of the ASTA come to wherever the North .
this award is given double the Canadian community , amending a support a " the ASTA and does and encourage the navigation the voile .
this is the first time that a port Canadian win this honour .
the the years of the same meeting , the captain Daniel P . Moreland , boss the the three - m?ts Picton Castle , the Lunenburg , the summer honoured the so that instructeur the navigation the voile the the year by the ASTA .
the captain Moreland the situations the world . aircraft the the Picton Castle with a crew set in majority of novices , when the homes the left the Port of Lunenburg , November 1997 , the odyss?e historic the 18 months .
Mr. . the Villiers the the generous the half of the price of 10 per $ the Canadian Library of Lunenburg to the help to continue his excellent work .
we f?licitons and saluons the city of Lunenburg , the mayor Laurence Mawhinney and the councillors , and that the charpentiers the ship , the forgerons the navy , for his traceurs - patronniers the 1800 and his people . hospitals .
we f?licitons the captain Daniel P . Moreland and Marq the Villiers to their business and the price that they have assurances .
the reform of the Senate
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , the week , the the government John Hamm , the Canadian Nova Scotia Nova , the way of the the the numbers .
while the us closer the Canadian season of the Maritimes the 1998 , the legislative legislation . the province . the one of the important to protect the safety of the public , permission a position firm the the respect to the Information the state of preventable .
in Nova Scotia Nova , these semiconductors are responsible for nearly the 40 per - all the Late the the highways .
the government Hamm the employee of new legislation which , he the hope , will link the people of driver with the the repair affaiblies , the the should fall the number of famine insens?es and protect the safety of the people of the Nova Scotia Nova .
the 1 December , a new legislation legislation will move the two to three years , period of the suspension of the fishing the one conducteur recognized contempt of a second offence for its the state of preventable .
a third offence jobs . suspension of a period detention of ten years and a fourth offence the flow by a suspension the life of the fishing .
the new legislation legislation will also the suspension administrative and immediate the the fishing for a period of 7.5 at the the case of the Information the the rate of alcool?mie the beneficiaries of 0,05 and 0,08 .
this government has made in the leadership in giving the the government , resserrent the legislation and the are the toughest the the place . the people who conduisent the state of preventable .
almost all the provinces have now adopted a program of suspension such being the the Information the state of preventable , and many of the one of the successful the deficit of the substantial the number of highway .
in quality of legislators federal , we can learn . the lessons of the experience of our counterparts provincial the people clearly learned the umbrella of the other .
the Senate is time , butte the Canadian and fallacious and d?peint by the many people as the one institution , the view of majority of the Canadian , is giving .
" Continuing Scandal of Canada' s sessional , in which he carried the the Senate such as it is today , not the no value real .
honourable senators , responding to numbered Mr. Hoy and the the rest of the Canada , what the the work that we work here is important .
i believe in the reform of the Senate , but the the books and the the GST the the kind of the just the subject . the the attiser the calls in favour of the removal of the Senate .
he is time that we assumions a leadership .
fundamental the example , by the governments provincial as the government Hamm and montrons the all the Canadian , what the the institution which we do the motion advanced .
the Agriculture
the hemp cultivation - Effect obstacles to the export to the United - United
the Honourable Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I will be the point of the subject of a question that I have discussed here , there has some weeks .
the this time , a conflict opposait the Kenex Limited , the Pain Court of Ontario , the the Customs and the the Agency the fight antidrogue the the United - United .
i am pleased to note , the Senate that the problem . almost the steady resolved .
while the the rest , I point of this , he is the one week , a crop . seeds of hemp in emerging the the Canada has examined the encombre the Customs American .
the Agency the fight antidrogue and the Customs American the businesses the not . go to other chargements the hemp exp?di?s to the United - United by Kenex .
i wish to the moment to congratulate the Department of the Foreign Affairs and the the International Covenant to the assistance to the the scope the Kenex the view of this is the " the advantage of this business young and dynamic .
my congratulations to Kenex .
this is a good news for the farmers Canadian .
the year international the the people seniors
the Honourable LoisM. Wilson :
honourable senators , the livelihood international the the people seniors d?cr?t?e by the United Nations coming to his late , the fact that the the ageing the Canadian public , the reason , the Canadian this initiative remains full the the most of the honourable .
he is also to a more , the " and in?galit?s the federal - care of health and the well - be the the " Appointments the the people seniors to lower income , the people seniors alive only and the realm women , the the problems of health accessibility and the home fixed .
the fourth Conference World Annual the Canadian Federation international the the ageing , the the in the " Montreal , September 1998 , the Chinese a statement .
the document . concern to the the the principles that the United Nations have passed in 1991 , the Canadian and the elderly not have not yet recognized or relentlessly violation and that the implementation of the Canadian the ninth international the action on the ageing adopted . Vienne the amending leave , the motor .
here is that the committee , the rights of the man of the United Nations said , November 1998 , the Canadian the record of the Canada in the application of the Convention of the United Nations Convention to the rights economic and social :
... the the Canada version a Member of poverty official and focus , the " all the levels of the Canadian assistance social the guarantee a quality of life reasonable to all .
the Canadian the meeting , the motion held in New York , the country third , mondistes the indicated that only 8,5p. per - and peoples respective vivraient to the 60 years .
in Africa , this percentage not . the Canadian 3 per , while the it is de24p. per to the European .
he considers the most of the as we , wish to Year of a world new the review of the close to the Canadian . continents of the poverty and the Canadian and ?lots the poverty , exist to the public . the people medicine the the Canada .
the question of the poverty , the people seniors must be analys?e in the context of the development , the the Elimination of the poverty and the the exclusion social soulign?s the the Summit global the Summit for the development partnership , the in 1995 .
after several years of alarm , our Agenda the assistance addition , overseas . the the least stabilized , but it m?riterait the benefit of supply supplementary .
he m?riterait also the coordinator the action with the Canadian the program of tax . the burden of the debt of the majority of the country debt and with the initiatives to the use of employment and the health to the people seniors .
the United Nations have been invit?es the purpose of five years . parl World the the ageing , the the years of the will have the magazine the progress progress by the different States to the implementation of the Canadian and the Canadian Air the vote of the people seniors .
i am sure that the bill be avalis? and that the point that will then the Canada , the situation . the people seniors d?munies , vulnerable and the homeless will unite .
business routine
the union monetary European
tabling of the report of the committee , the business foreign
the Honourable John B . Stewart :
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the ?
the senator Stewart :
under the the rule 97 ( 3 ) the the Rules , I move that the study of the report be placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion ?
( the motion is agreed . )
transport and Communications
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
the Honourable Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , pursuant to the article 104 the the Rules and the Senate , I have the honour to table the Prime report of the committee on the Canadian and Communications and the the communication , the the Estimates incurred by the committee to the years of the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament .
society . R the the Cape - Breton
tabling of the Prime report of the committee Special
the Honourable John G . Bryden :
honourable senators , pursuant to the article 104 the the Rules and the Senate , I have the honour to table the Prime report of the committee Special the the Senate on the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape , which covers the the Estimates incurred by the committee to the years of the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report found to the Journals of the Senate . today , the
the Committee of Selection
introduction of the fifth report
the Honourable L?once Jeffrey , the Canadian the Committee of Selection , the the report following :
the 1998 17 November 99
the Committee of Selection the the honour to present its
fifth REPORT
under the the article 85 ( 1 ) ( a ) the the Rules and the Senate , your Committee reclassification the Honourable Senator Losier - Cool as chairman lengths .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
L?ONCE MERCIER
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the ?
the senator Jeffrey :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , I move that is the Senate into the late today , the
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure , he and the Canadian motion , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Jeffrey , the study of the report is placed on the Order of the Order of late . on the motion
the freedom religious the China , report with the pactes international the the United Nations
notice of inquiry
the Honourable LoisM. Wilson :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the 1998 24 November 99 , I give the attention of the Senate on the freedom religious the China , report with the pactes international the the United Nations .
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the resources natural
the closure of the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape - Conformity informed the the synthetic the fund - Government Position of the government
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
Monday , the Minister of the Natural natural , Ralph Goodale , the announcement that the government , injectera 70 million . $ in the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape to the teachers the corporation the state in line up in April 2000 .
he is a the one sudden full of the government . a government , the vehemence again , the the not there was not the new money federal available to improve the pension of retirement and the allowance the hostilities the Employment valued the the relatively the Canadian Devco and their families .
the employee of the Devco the are Montfort during the Canadian eight months to the the government improving the agreement .
the government Liberal . provided 111 million . $ the the purpose of the pension of retirement and the the allowance the hostilities the Employment , but 340 minor only will the " and benefits of retirement and reintegrating the the allowance .
this , financial federal , the corporation houill?re to a second year , back is a sudden unmitigated .
how the government held in the the so provide suddenly the the $ the $ that he Anderson not . the order to keep in line of society that he has the intent of close ?
it means that the the government . the not forsaken the Cape - Cape and that he extended the the fund so , the relatively the Canadian Devco the framers complete the first year , the new millennium . " ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I can walk categorically and the fear of the gravest that the government . the Canada . the not forsaken the Cape - Cape in the past and not the not the intent of the make the the future .
our commitment to the Cape - Cape the motion continued .
the , the recent , the government , the Canadian together with the province , the single the Right a fund Special the development of 80 million . $ to the help the economy . the Cape - Cape the extension this period of Tax . painful .
the government . the Canada continue to play its role for the in the " and people of the Cape - Cape .
in the the concerns of 70 million . $ , the closure of the Devco , as the corporation the state be a place . the manner . reinstate and very coordinated , the Canadian reseller the December 1998 . " I am the the senator is the the armed the the very detailed program Covenant the the resources human the the summer perpetrators and the in the with the calendar .
the government had pr?sum? that , for Polish the program , he could be on some revenues from the Canadian production of the Westray Phalen .
this part of the plan was very important and greatly necessary .
the senator and the other senators know that the Westray the summer door . earlier , provided , in the the circumstances surviving .
the Westray the then the door immediately , primarily to the the reasons of security .
the case of this closure immediate , the revenues the the availability of the objective of the date extending December , are envol?es .
two criteria the tens the the government .
the Prime efficient , terrorism the the revenues to the the so must the commitments that he was made towards the relatively and their families in the part of the program .
i know that the senator . approuverait not a moment solution .
the same , the many groups of the Nova Scotia Nova , there was the the members of the party , the said that this thing . was not acceptable .
the result , the fund . was detained for the the withdrawal graduel the the government , in the seaway the the mines .
the , the people who were vote of change their way of life in the Canadian . " no deemed not to life suddenly boulevers?e .
we are satisfied that the the d?roulera as planned and that the replacement of the revenues from the the mining the coal is the right to the viable .
the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape - Conformity bill to the fact disbanding - Effect consequences for the relatively and the staff
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , the bill to the C - 11 , the synthetic the sale of the Devco , eye a section the legal the formal a section of the Act , the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape the argument the government must take all the cautions reasonable to ensure the well - be the the workers .
if the bill to the motion pass , the government Liberal will be . This close to doors of the corporation , it to the relatively a payment single equivalent to the Canadian a year , dark economic g?n?r?e by the Devco , and the in Charlottetown the hands ?
in the case contrary , what initiatives federal will provide the implementation for Innovation the new jobs and the whole a new growth in the economy affaiblie the the Cape - Cape ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the very large initiatives are in the Canadian enforcement , the matters that I have mentioned words .
in the Canadian development economic , a statute the 1980 million . $ the the perpetrator the the program existing , the motion of effort appr?ciable .
the same , the assistance leave to the relatively and the Canadian public . the Cape - Cape is important .
the Prime Minister of the pervasive committed to seeing this , and the the fact , the
frankly , I do I am not the justice for the ?lectricien the Canadian Devco the specifically a compensation to layoff the 1980 $ or 90 per $ and the d?crochera a place , six months , later .
this worker the tirera very well , the .
i am concerned however , the the , the case of many years of the and the - be the one inability election , will the the difficulty the the historical in the new economy .
as I , I said , the revoit this allowance and the deviants the basis , the other measures be a chance , in particular to the help the workers who , the the most needed .
the senator Oliver :
the Minister . the not the reference to the provision of the bill to the C - 11 , tabled my question Supplementary .
the senator Boudreau :
all aspects , I am I committed yesterday , it . the " the senator Murray .
i will the back to a copy of the Honourable Senator Oliver .
the Defence down
the closure of the army Cornwallis - Government clawback of the windows comm?moratifs the Canadian chapelleSt. George' s
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , the Honourable Leader of the government to the Senate . recall that the 1993 , 1994 , the government , the file the army Cornwallis .
the the time , the the d?m?nag? the windows of the chapelleSt. George' s , the foreign the Canadian telecommunications .
the Leader of the government to the Senate may , he we say , the Department of the National Defence the historical these impressively in the chapelleSt. George' s ?
the people who have paid to the windows , having the the place and ancient recruits the Canadian telecommunications , wish to the windows that replac?s that the people were .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I know the matter of the senator about .
these impressively the summer kidnapping the one chapelle the was unused .
they will find the " Halifax , the motion of the great delight Pubnico the the country and the Canadian chapelle receives the the issue . the day .
the the announcement the one some time , the businesses in this chapelle to the the people so , the and the Terms the regular .
i believe that the Canadian chapelle the the people feel is the new Chair , but the way , sporadique , a or two , by the .
the the announcement , for the moment of the least , the the windows should stay in a place where they can be seen and off by the Canadian people .
the the senate the summer Conducted recently and the the hostile course , the question , but it is that is the the summer decided to the moment .
the senator Comeau :
i have a question supplementary , honourable senators ,
the Leader of the government has said that the chapelle the Shannon Park , the the windows are now wing , strong , often that the chapelle the Cornwallis .
the the person - be compare the numbers of fr?quentation , as it is the time , the House of the House and the Senate , for the so it is chapelle the Shannon is the fr?quent?e that the the was the Canadian army Cornwallis .
however , the the motion . the important that the fr?quentation the Canadian chapelle , the motion of the the the people who have either the windows equal in the region . Cornwallis and the ferries and that the the thousands of recruits the are arising by Cornwallis will the , do the the spring .
i think that they would the biathlon the look the windows . the people should be steadily and NAFTA .
i ask the the Leader of support this initiative .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the proposal of the Honourable Senator that I am confident the happy to fr?quentation the one institution or the one utility church I remind the pr?cepte unto following : " That the the not the ever theology , challenges the first off the .
i do believe that the I would the MOU the Middle the number of the funeral the one reason service church .
i understand however , feeling that the senator from the sincerity and I do bring not the in the government to the Minister .
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I have I also a question supplementary .
i could without the look the Prime caillou .
if the Minister could the the the odd the bancs the Canadian chapelle and the the looking at the the the people . the r?install?s , the chapelle would be the be a little more fr?quent?e .
the senator Kinsella :
the are the people ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I could without the subject . later , the Honourable Senator and find the bancs .
the replacement of the helicopters Sea King - Government Position of the credit , Donkin
the Honourable Gerry St. :
honourable senators , my question . question . " the Leader of the government to the Senate .
it has the " a question that I have raised the 4 November the the helicopters Sea King .
i have mentioned the Canadian continent again , the as the senator Forrestall and the other , the Senate , the emergency the problem . the .
i am glad to the " - and I , indeed , we had a government Conservative , NDP - advised or Reform - that if no . was the and the the , the one incident , the responsibility in incomberait directly to the cabinet , the the Prime Minister and the the Minister of the National Defence .
as many of the Canadian , I believe that we have forsaken our forces personnel to the the motion of their specific a equipment sure .
the cancellation of the requirement of the EH - 101 the summer a decision policy and I do I do some of the armed the service today , if the requirement had been expected .
however , the Leader of the government has said that I would close a response to my question of yesterday .
the - the date . to a response to direct and cut ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , for the the motion of the program of Alternative the the helicopters Sea King , in a sense , I can repeat that the I have already said , the Senate .
i have heard the the Minister of the National Defence , the " the said that he is a to the Canadian the question of the matter . the Canadian equipment .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
this is that the the government , and the
the senator Boudreau :
the Minister has had a number success .
the government . is that prepared to engage the the fund to the the program important , as a leadership , the the subamendment , maintenance .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
how fees the emphasis ?
the senator Boudreau :
the Minister . the said that this issue is extremely priority for the .
i would have said , as I , out the " and honourable senators , the I consider this issue urgently priority .
i grew to Halifax and the not there has not a city in our country where the military are held in the high regard .
we appr?cions greatly the role that they play and the sacrifice that they are daily .
i will certainly support as the I , I have the efforts efforts to the the acquisition of the aircraft the replacement of the Sea King the report of the early possible .
the St. Germain :
honourable senators , I do not pretend not the the intent of the government . encouraging the the aircraft the replacement .
this is that the aspect key .
i refer to the Canadian Multicentre , a experience active .
the the need to 30 hours of repair to the one apparatus that steal a time , the honourable senators can the armed the U the Canadian the ship , the .
anyone does a little the helicopters know , what the people are subject to the major efforts and constraint .
i am the the Honourable Leader of the my opinion , we do we , the choice that the lease the the helicopters .
we must give the our military the the equipment adequate the their will the secourir the the people who donate the the aventurer the sea to displace the one homes - to the broad the the coasts of the Nova Scotia Nova or the .
i urge the Leader of the suggestion the matter and I , the Canadian new a response to the subject of the sublease .
the senator Boudreau :
i remember the all the honourable senators , the government has made recently , the commitments important to the respect to the equipment the the forces personnel Canadian .
i have heard the the subamendment , maintenance .
the the subamendment , maintenance , the amounts incurred are the 750 million . $ .
the process of Alternative the the helicopters the research and rescue Labrador . in the , and the amounts incurred in the case , down higher the internal million . $ .
the government has also committed 30 million . $ to modernize the compound Aldershot , and the the so committed 300 million . $ the the CHST the the benefits , for improving the level of life of the members of our forces personnel in this area .
i do I do ?luder the question of the Honourable Senator .
in the , I have the Canadian and research and I have a response regarding the I pr?voyais table the Canadian reseller the Canadian the Canadian and the .
i can confirm the the Honourable Senator that the " no provision not , for the moment , landlords the helicopters .
the St. Germain :
honourable senators , he is the " the egregious the scenario our military to the types conditions in the Canadian the bad state of our cherished .
he is that a solution .
he I unpopular the duty to this , but I do so that the same the the words , laid the fear that must surely state of Pilots when they must be steal a replacement the the need to 30 hours of repair to each hour of flight .
the Honourable Senator might - the feeling the one another organization in the world . the corrective the fonctionnerait in the types conditions ?
the senator Meighen :
it should close to doors .
the St. Germain :
the senator Meighen the reason .
the the Transportation of the safety of the Transportation , the the Department of the Minister Collenette the smaller close to the Canadian the U the Canadian and ownership .
i urge a time , the the Leader of reparler the the Minister for the the repository his position .
the senator Boudreau :
i thank the Honourable Senator to his comments .
honourable senators , I am repeating , but the Minister . the the the assurance that the first priority was the replacement of the helicopters .
the entire clearly , he does , as all those who ministries the situation , the the helicopters be a replaced .
the the the motion of the use of the aircraft , I am rassure the the idea that the helicopters . recevraient not the mission of flight if the people did not , not convaincues that they can the obligations .
as the the cost of the face , some questions to the question .
however , we are increasingly the that the I hope that the aircraft will replaced , so that this may expectation the make .
the United Nations
the proposal of the Liberal Party of reassess the participation of the Canada - Government Position of the government
the Honourable Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the Liberal Party , the form of Opposition official the Canadian House of the House , the article a document on the political foreign in which he said that , the the formait the government , the Liberal Party r??valuerait the participation of the Canada , the United Nations .
the the the the United is a cornerstone cornerstone of the political foreign the the Canada has a half - century , what the Senate . party to the power , what is the Government of the government side , a proposal , readers ?
the government has the the intent of the in question clear the support the the United Nations , or will be given to this proposal the attention that it deserves , the motion ? " - that the not in the fact ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the CHST the Leader of the government to the Senate , I wish to express the support strong and persistent the country government to the institution , is the Organization of the United Nations .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the senator Boudreau :
he is incredible that a party politics responsible the the kind of statement or reference the kind of Government approach the the Liberal Party .
the Reform not have the people is equivalent of the history ?
he would engender the not better to the attention to this statement , to the Republic of the private a surgical credibility .
he is incredible that a moment statement that the beginning serious the country at the
the health
the power to regulate the events magnitude in the targets the ?quarrissage - Government Position of the government
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
in July the , he is the product a lifer unfortunate the the Manitoba .
the the feed the summer empoisonn?s by a herbicide very height .
they have been exp?di?s to a plant the ?quarrissage the people have the - be the alleged to the moul?e produced the the clay , which has reported served in paying the the hog and the the chickens .
fortunately , however , it is the not been shown .
the board federal , the Agency Canadian of Caches of the foods , DFO that the ?quarrissage provincial and the provinces , the the government provincial and the business of ?quarrissage the case believe that the ?quarrissage is the federal federal .
what is the Government of the government to the respect to the responsibility federal , the Canadian products magnitude in the targets the ?quarrissage ?
the same , the sidelines data scientific the basis . the paying the hog and the chickens with the the feed typical , and the record what other restes the all kinds , then , the the in the example of the disease of the cow Mad the honorary ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I am well pleased to the question raised by the senator .
the , will , I should be the my sides of Leader Deputy , since the motion to the expert the the area of the ISA .
the senator Forrestall :
i wish to the look your colleague the the Cape - Cape !
the senator Boudreau :
the Honourable Senator there a point is the
i do know , just not enough to the to respond today , the
however , I will I tell and I , fournirai a response to quickly that possible .
on business orders
the Senate . the Senate
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
i point of order .
honourable senators , the Opposition asks the the government . consider the possibility of the date the report that has the table the chairman of the Committee of Selection .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , we are the agreement and we give the the Senate . leave of the date . the .
the Committee of Selection
the Canadian the fifth report
the Senate proceeded to the study of the fifth report of the Committee of Selection ( b the Speaker in the lengths ) , the " the Senate . 17 November 99 .
the Honourable L?once Jeffrey :
honourable senators , I move the adoption of the report .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I wish deal , wish to the Canadian this motion of our colleague , the whip of the government , the motion of great president of the committee , a the the best in the history of the Senate .
i wish express the pleasure , we have felt the the side of the House of the announcement of the appointment of our colleague , the senator Cool - Cool , the just the Canadian province of the New - New and the the fact , cash remarkable been his appointment to the Senate .
we are very pleased to support the motion of the senator Jeffrey .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , let - I , I , " in the debate on the report .
the the name of the honourable the members of the side - the , I commend the senator acclaimed in the report to deal of the Canadian Speaker pro tempore .
this one has fulfilled with distinction the role of Senator , and I am sure that it is acquittera with the same distinction the the part of Speaker pro tempore .
i commend the the chairman of the Committee of Selection and all the honourable the people in the the deliberations and the Canadian speak to support the report .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is passed . )
the Act , the border judicial
bill to the Second - Second Reading
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Fraser , seconded by the Honourable Senator Gill , seconded the Canadian second reading of the bill to the C - 7 , the Act , the Act , lots judicial and a place . in determining .
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , before the comments the text that I have prepared , I wish you wish to the bill to the C - 7 . in substance and pays the bill to the C - 69 , the us we began the examination of the end of the last session .
my remarks this afternoon , afternoon will have time to simplify the the former Bill , the C - 69 .
the , see no , a attempt to you deceiving the mistake , but the Bill C C - 69 equivalent to the bill to the C - 7 assessments .
the Canadian planned my speech , I wish to thank the Honourable Senator Fraser to have seconded the intervention that I have made in this chamber , the " the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional to amend the anc?tre the the bill to the C - 7 , the the bill to the C - 69 , the the level of the powers regulatory powers to the Solicitor General .
i wish to the point that the Solicitor General has declared with pleasure , changes that I have made to the bill to the in June the .
i would the am very grateful .
these provisions drive to facilitate the r?insertion social the the Cold .
the most , the Act , the the rights of the human banned the discrimination to the people who have had a rehabilitative the the Solicitor General of the Canada .
he is important to mention that the rehabilitative not efface not the existence of the condemnation and that it is being automatically cancel if the human is allowed condamn?e to a mere criminal .
now , the Act , lots judicial the the consequences of the licensing of the rehabilitative , as the implementation of scell?s the the border judicial the the offender .
honourable senators , the changes proposed by the government to the Act , the border judicial , by the inclusion of the bill to the C - 7 , marine the increase the safety of the people .
specifically , they are depleted the plight the Cold sexual the deal of the Post of trust the Canadian and children or the other people vulnerable .
the objective this objective , the bill to the C - 7 , the state of clause Supplementary the the the the policy , the case , the the border judicial the the Cold sexual r?habilit?s .
the new section 6.3 the Canadian Act , the border judicial the the the commissioner of the preserve Royal the the Canada can include in the fichier automatis? the the relev?s the condamnations convergence Transport , the RCMP , a indicateur or a marqueur the outcome the service of police , a research , the the purpose of filtrage that he is , respecting the one person , a matter scell? or a challenge of a condemnation to a violation to Issues body meeting of the regulations to the respect to the the the the summer delivered a rehabilitative .
this recommendation . was endorsed the the unanimous by the ministers federal and provincial and the Justice in the their meeting of October 1998 , the Regina .
the , the organizations , Mister the the services to the the children and the wish to a voluntary or a disgruntled up will now find it . run the entire a rehabilitative the the respect to a violation sexual .
this audit . will be instituted the " both conditions : the one of the so , employment pla?ait the postulant the situation . authority or the confidence by the " and children or the Canadian and the vulnerable ; and other hand , if the - the the businesses by letter to the integrity .
the " marqueur the signalera the Canadian police the fact , integrity to the the purpose of filtrage that the request of Unauthorized the the border the one person r?habilit?e must be accompanied the the fingerprints training the Canadian Human the question .
if the integrity the Canadian subsidiaries that the human the previous the the subject of a condemnation to a violation to Issues body , the RCMP or the body officer in the the the senior the Canadian audit the authority to the commissioner of the RCMP the back to the Solicitor General . matter of increased the condemnation the the respect to the individual .
the Solicitor General will decide the Canadian Radio the directors the content of the border .
if the last the synthetic , the RCMP or the service of police will bring the information to the board the in the fact , the .
the fight , the board . will use the information that the the part of the examination of the request of employment .
the Republic of the abuse , the bill to the rules that this audit . will be excluded the one another the the same the study of the Canadian job .
honourable senators , he I have made to you say that I am fully in agreement with the objectives and the principles which the - barristers the bill to the C - 7 .
he is clear that the safety of our children and the the people vulnerable of our society will be prot?g?e by the new legislation .
the fight , I wish to mention that many associations , as the Corporation Elizabeth Fry , the Criminal Lawyers' Association , the Chinese the the reserves as the Canadian political the reason , based on the the Canadian law C - 7 .
the main concerns of these groups , based on the fact that is the Canadian law the band the integrity of the system of offenders and the role in the mental and the r?int?gration the the Cold .
they argue , including , the the Solicitor General . the not voiced the way satisfaction that the bill currently the the border judicial and the rehabilitative not enough , for protecting properly the corporation the the pr?dateurs sexual the people were r?habilit?s .
the most , the Corporation John Howard and the Corporation Elizabeth Fry concerned that the duration the access to the issues of offenders , the not give a false feeling of security , in rel?guant in the Shadows the other elements key to the selection of the staff to the Post of trust by the " the the children or the the people vulnerable .
honourable senators , the Canadian and the Canadian the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the the bill to the C - 69 , we have examined this issue . After .
in the meaning , I wish to quickly the question of balance between the rights of the people r?habilit?es by the Solicitor General of the Canada and those of the children or the the people vulnerable .
the so , the the most of some , the provisions of the bill to the feeling back in the the principle of offenders social the argument based on budgets of our system of bombing Earl and the rehabilitative , the bill , so however , a number balance between the rights of the human the the summer accus?e , condamn?e then lib?r?e and those of the children , we must protect .
honourable senators , he is clear that when he is a the perpetrators the children or the people seniors , a single offence , is already a the press .
the consequences are serious and we must be . the the motion in our power , in the the parliamentary , for so that the kind events . Moore .
when I states that the bill to the Americas the one some balance between the rights of the two groups of individuals , I do little not the tolls or the banaliser the problem , but I wish to the in light .
when we talking the actions criminals , the the treatment of the offender and the quality of the government . Gay effective and practical , the kind of offending , we must see the things in a light comparative .
i can you firm , in the the lawyer , the the motion . the difficult to reach the the kinds balance between the rights of the people , the people showed that they could lead a life normal , and the fact , so that the system of offenders not possibly a mechanism the masque the background of the people who may the present a danger to the children and the other people vulnerable .
this is a problem thorny .
in the meaning , the government , the agreement , with all the other matters provincial and court in the one conference of the ministers of the Justice , the end of the one system of rep?rage the the kind .
this is the consensus which are suffering all these ministers .
this is a compromise , the motion of Proposition , the not putting not to the extreme in a sense or in the other , but who is considered as the balanced and workable .
in response to the concerns legitimate concerns the some members of the committee and some associations the postal that the bill to the not compromette the objectives of offenders the the process of licensing of a shirts , I quote that the bill to the not take the one only exception to the benefits meet the Canadian rehabilitative .
he says a system of rep?rage extremely cibl? in which are included the the government . protection of the rights of the human r?habilit?e .
i wish to address the question of the regulatory - the , the said , from the the summer the the heart of the Senate . the committee , the business legal , respecting the the application of the provisions for the the marquage the the border judicial .
as you the you , this issue . concern to the most colourful the .
now , the article 8 , the bill to the rules amend the article 9.1 the Canadian Act , the border judicial to the this new provision the the marquage the the issues of the r?habilit?es the " a comdamnation to a violation to Issues body , May properly .
in order to the bill to the C - 7 , therefore , bill to the the us we do we , and the was also the case of the bill to the C - 69 - the government will , by regulation , first , inventory the list of the heat involved , the term , the character body , and second , adequate the inclusion of the marqueur the the respect to the casiers court and relev?s the condemnation and the integrity of these games ; third , define the words , children , and the people vulnerable to the and unknowingly , adequate the process of agreement of the individual convention the the new section 6.3 , the Canadian audit the the issues or the Canadian affiliate of the information that the border contains the the board the in the Canadian the and make the the Order of factors that the Solicitor General made in suggesting when he wants to Authorize or not the disclosure of the content of the matter of a person r?habilit?e .
the Canadian the appearance of the Solicitor General , the members of the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional , the 14 June the , I have stated that the powers regulatory , such as d?finis by the Bill C C - 69 , were a question of political .
the this effect , I , I asked many questions .
why the process of agreement of the individual actually the the new section 6.3 the Canadian audit the the issues or the Canadian affiliate of the information that the border contains the the board the in the Canadian the motion ? the grain only to the Governor in the ?
why the bill to the not true , he not the the not to coast only the " and individuals who had been burdened to a violation to Issues body ?
the so . the speech , the government in the other place and the the Senate . , he and offence to Issues body , the bill to the not was not aware specifically to the character body of these offences .
why the bill to the not contained - the not in Printed a list of the heat the character body , if the other l?gislations federal , as the Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques , coupled a appendice the travail clear the heat the are concerned by the provisions of the bill ?
honourable senators , when I have made the honourable the June the , the Canadian the debate in paragraph reading of the bill C C - 69 , I have stated that the powers similar to the Governor in the Editor . important .
the Canadian the testimony of the Solicitor General to the committee , I , I mentioned that the " could deal . the in the ins?rant in the bill to the .
beware note honourable senators , the years ago years , the government of the and the former government - uncle of exempt the number of the bill to definitions legal or the process of operating the one legislation which could be filed or blowing when they are analyzed by the members of the Parliament , the committee standing of the two Houses or the groups of the .
it is , you , modernizing , the motives , the process of consultation to the study of a bill to the and the study of a new regulatory not . not the the first , the .
in the case of the definition of the words , children , or the people vulnerable to the the officials of the Department of the Solicitor General . " to our concerns of the way next :
in the case of the people vulnerable to the Canadian definition not had not been Ramsay in the bill to the , it would change the the years of the next years .
in the meaning , he would then the difficult to define the term in the bill to the border judicial .
in the context , he was the individual that the ministers so amend the definition by regulation . the " to a new bill to the .
despite the , I have reminded the the Minister and the the officials that a part of the Code Civil the the Quebec Charter substantially and the way . specific the the people vulnerable to the people rights civilian that lawyers .
in the case of the term , children , the the officials have stated that this definition was already Ramsay in the other Acts and that he not there was a no need to the inclusion in the Bill C C - 69 .
yet , the new Act , the system of justice criminal to the Task that we shall the the years of the next month contains a definition of the term , children , the
lacking the the the people should the Minister and his officials , I am sure that this definition not proper not often .
the most , these same officials have stated for compensating these two oublis that the Department of literature the same approach to the changes to the annexes the Canadian Act , the system Correctional and the implementation of freedom the condition .
now , these annexes beyond many definitions legal and regulatory the are changed the application .
honourable senators , I wish to point that many members of the committee , the I - the , the fact out of the Minister that the so , section 8 , the bill to the C - 69 , the the policy , the power regulatory , true the fact that the heat tables to the drafting of the list would the character body , the bill to the not was no reference to the the coast only to the individuals who had been burdened to a violation to Issues body .
the number places in the bill to the , the not was referred to the the term , offence to the
the result , this list would have include a series of offenders the not have not a noble specifically body , the the would increased the scope of the provisions of the bill to the C - 69 .
it is too vague and too broad .
the officials of the Department of stated that this list there have the
it has been prepared to cooperate with the provinces for trying to the the the monopoly the inclusion the Canadian list of the heat the right forecast of the heat the nature sexual to carry the the children or the the groups vulnerable .
if it is already prepared , why not . the have Ramsay in the bill to the ?
it is that the the opportunity to the study away .
in determining , the list of offenders the will the Canadian telecommunications . the application of this new legislation the be very too vague and it d?passerait largely the intent of the l?gislateur .
i wish to you wish to the right p?nal is fundamental .
a top is a top .
in the meaning , he seems that proper the lurch these decisions the the power executive , only to the power executive , rather than the the power legislative .
the most , the not be renier the principle which is that all our laws be in agreement with the provisions of the Charter of the rights and Freedoms .
finally , in the case of the consent , the officials of the Department of Marshall that they not had not necessary to the inclusion in the bill . process of agreement of the individual complaint the the article 6.3 the the bill to the .
in many other Acts federal , the process of agreement is this piece in the bill .
honourable senators , for trying to reassure the members of the committee , the Minister has resulted the inclusion in the bill to all these power regulatory to the the reasons practices .
in the spirit , some of these changes to take looking the time , particularly the people were to the subject of the examination Parliamentary thorough .
in the case , the the government would the the widespread in a situation that the other qualifieraient the matter and that he not be not in the Canadian from fantasy soon , the by the , the definition of the words , children , or the people vulnerable to the the process of agreement of the individual whatever be reticent quickly to the the reasons practices or legal .
honourable senators , as I , I said , he is true that he is urgently the resulting the Canadian protection of the children and the the people vulnerable , the pr?dateurs sexual .
the fight , it is the not a reason for repeal the powers of the Parliament and the move addition , principle of our Charter .
this is to this reason that some members of the committee and I - the not have not accept the UN the the Minister , the point and those of the officials .
the " the magnitude of the criticism of the members of the committee , you know that is the one history , finit , the , the Solicitor General , is committed to reassess the provisions of the bill to the " the years of the summer .
he I did the urgently the feasibility the bill to the opportunity .
the 9 September the , the officials of the Department of the Solicitor General . the " and the Canadian the committee , the amendments to correct the shortcomings the the bill to the C - 69 .
the most , the bill to the sp?cifiera that the system of marquage the the casiers court . the adressera that the the individuals who have been burdened to the the heat the character body .
the best encadrer the process , a list of offenders the summer added in Printed the the bill to the .
i suppose that you meaning that I speak to the bill to the C - 69 .
this last will be amended , by the , by ascertain .
then , the definitions " to children , or the " and vulnerable to the summer displaced , the the text of the Order of the text of the bill to the .
honourable senators , let - I , lies in Beijing that the one time , through the Canadian resolute the the members of your committee , the business legal and Constitutional , the bill to the C - 69 and , I , will be , the bill to the C - 7 , the summer greatly am?lior?s the way to the the the rights of the people r?habilit?es and those of the children and the the people vulnerable that lawyers fairly .
the Canadian , the Canadian my remarks , I support the principles of the bill to the .
he will necessitate as it . to the the committee , the business legal and Constitutional .
i hope that the government r?introduira the amendments that he was accepted the original the bill to the C - 69 .
we reach , the one time , the demands the blood on the honourable senators ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , if no other senator . I take the honourable , I further , the prior with the motion .
the Honourable Senator Fraser , seconded by the Honourable Senator Gill , moved that the bill to the Senate read a second time .
you pleasure , he and the Canadian motion , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed and the bill to the motion read a second time . )
referred to the committee
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . trois?me time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Fraser , the bill to the motion referred to the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional . )
... the early ...
visitors in Gallery
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I would draw the presence in the gallery of His Altesse Bank Samdech Krom Khun Norodom Sirivudh , Chairman of the Minister of the U the the Cambodge .
the the name of all the honourable , I would wish to welcome to the Senate . the Canada .
business legal and Constitutional
notice of Motion asking the authority to use of documents and evidence collected in the the study of the bill to the previous to the purpose of the study of the bill to the present
leave having been granted , back to the opinion of Motion :
the Honourable Joan Fraser :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 18 November 99 , I move :
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the Committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the the years of the study of the bill C C - 69 , the Act , the Act , lots judicial and a place . in determining , the Canadian the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament be removed the the Committee to the present study of the bill to the C - 7 .
... the early ...
visitors in Gallery
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I draw your attention of the presence in the gallery of a delegation of the leaders and other members of the group of the Montagnais the the structured - St. - Jean and the Canadian Ivory - North the the Quebec , extended the honour to the Honourable Senator Gill .
the Canadian the Canadian all the honourable , I would wish to welcome to the Senate .
the the Hon. the
hear !
business foreign
leave to the committee , until the date of closer the Hon. the final the Canadian amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty the the Atlantic North
leave having been granted , back to the opinion of Motion :
the Honourable John B . Stewart , pursuant to the opinion of the 16 November 99 , moved :
that , by terrorism the the Order adopted by the Senate . Thursday p.m. October 1998 , the Committee on the Canadian and business foreign , though the review the in the report of Korea to the Canada : 1 ) . the Canadian amendment brought to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty the the Atlantic North ( NATO ) and the the role of the Canada in the NATO been the disbanding of the tremendous the Warsaw , the Canadian reseller the Canadian War cold and the the coming recent in the NATO the Canadian Hungarian , the Canadian Poland and the Canadian Republic tch?que ; and 2 ) . the the peace - the peace , particularly the ability to the Canada . there to the the auspices of the important what body international the the Canada . the , the technical , to the report final the the most later , 15 December 1998 ; and
that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the premature the the results of the study contained in the report final , and the date , the 24 December 1998 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practical consequently , the table the report of the the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate . " no , and that obedience report be deposited have been tabled the the Senate .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Senate . the Senate
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I point of order .
we have received the , the one moment a notice of Motion to the senator Fraser .
a motion similar to the senator Oliver found to the Order .
the not seem not know very well , a motion requesting the authority to use of the documents and evidence collected by a committee on the " the years of a session adequate the the Parliament , the purpose of a committee , the name established to the years of a new session and responsible for the the same topic . consistent the the Rules .
the not seem not very well know the Rules .
you , you we provide the the clarification to the suspending . misunderstanding ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
i thank the senator Kinsella , wish to the .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I say simply that the request from the comments , the so I must mention that this matter . surgi by the Canadian and concerns of the senator Cools .
i should be the be the protocol the honourable rather than the attempt I - the Canadian summarized the question .
i preface , however , the I discussed with the Opposition Deputy of the Opposition that he would appropriate to ask the Governor Hon. the manner that the .
the Honourable Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I would the happy to add my grain the sel the the debate .
the Canadian first , I wish to the clarification .
is the the one point of the Rules ?
the extent the amounts - we are ?
the senator Hays :
this is a request the " the Chair of whether the acceptability of the motion , the opinion , the the by the senator Fraser .
the senator Cools :
the senator Kinsella , proposes the " the subject of the acceptability of the motion introduced by the senator Fraser ?
it . attach strange .
the senator Kinsella :
the , the senator Fraser the Statutory the one of the motion , the us dealing , the Canadian substance .
a motion such a was introduced by the senator Oliver , weekly last .
this motion . legitimately quite the the issues of the government . senators , the the senator Cools .
he seems to have the the least two schools of journalistic as the knowledge , the following the prorogation , the Senate progress during a session , a committee on the one of the ability to removal the the new Committee .
the my opinion , he is the clarify the question .
the senator Cools :
honourable senators , I pr?voyais to some clarification to this regard tomorrow , when I participerai the the debate on the motion of the senator Fraser , but if the honourable senator wish to the wrong the make this .
i try to determine the ones context I heart , the issues of the senator Kinsella .
i am prepared to address this issue .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , we will - the committee , the things .
the the the us we , the motion of the Canadian motion of the senator Fraser .
he not there has not the debate on a notice of Motion or even the possibility of authority to rule of this regard .
the question is being raised a time that we are before the Canadian motion .
however , I am plierai the Canadian political the the honourable senators ,
if you want to the aged the question now , I can the make , but I believe that he would the appropriate to wait that we arrivions the this section of the Order .
the senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , I have invoqu? the Rules the the fund . the motion of the senator Fraser the the opinion .
a motion such a was moved by the senator Oliver .
as the motion to the Speaker , quiet the job responsibility of interpret our rules , I have asked the the clarification .
i have invoqu? the Rules to ask the the clarification to the subject of the Rules because the I believe that we in the occasion need .
i have made the honourable not . the debate on the Canadian motion , but , for authority to rule of the time appropriate , the motion now .
the senator Hays :
the case would also be complicit the the time when the House will fall of the motion of the senator Oliver .
the question of the I believe that today , would a time , chose , particularly the honourable pr?voyez duty you cause .
what the the in the , the senator Cools is the human the the point of the , and I believe that it should explain what the Canadian concern .
the senator Cools :
i wish to the
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I , I , I believe that we will too soon . besogne .
the the the us we do we , in the case of the senator Fraser , the motion of the Canadian motion .
otherwise , the us not we not before the this matter .
a notice of Motion to overlook to the subject of a point of the Rules and the one knowledge debate .
the us that just that her the senator wishes to a thing .
we can the debate when it is that ex?cut?e .
if such is the good happy to the Senate , we can begin as now .
i am in either the honourable the this regard .
honourable senators , I said that the my opinion , the way of the Coal the make the things would the subject of each the view , the Canadian Presented .
if the debate on the motion of the senator Oliver is adjourned . the name of her the senator Cools , we in exchanging , the to the then , the motion of the senator Fraser .
however , I am in either the honourable .
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , if the Speaker is prepared to deal of the subject of the abstraite now , the - be we , we in the day , the when we in viendrons the Canadian motion of the senator Oliver .
i wish to the Canadian motion of the senator Oliver , we , the summer introduced and the motion Joyal , the name of the senator Cools is , in substance , exactly the same that the opinion of Motion to the senator Fraser .
would the the acceptable that we in discutions when the motion of the senator Oliver will raise ?
if the motion acceptable , I suggested that we tarred , the
the Hon. the Speaker :
the opinion of Motion and the motion . Marchand since they will support the the same practice .
they not have however , identiques the people deal of learning different .
the senator Cools :
honourable senators , we could be the be dealt the Canadian . complex raised in the case of the motion of the senator Oliver , proposing a subamendment .
i am in either the the Senate .
if the honourable are the opinion that the " should seek the deal . the day , the I am the agreement .
however , I am the opinion that this is a not really a point of the Rules , but rather a question of TAGS .
if such is the case , he would be the be the proper the in dealing the Canadian Jewish the one of the motion of the government , the the veterinary the the opinion of Motion to the senator Fraser .
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , we in discuterons when we complete the Canadian motion of the senator Oliver .
the - be an - the proper the in the " is at the be well some of our comments that recevables .
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Estimates , the Estimates , 1999 - 2000
leave granted to the committee , the Finance Finance . to the Estimates Supplementary ( A )
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . , pursuant to the opinion of the 16 November 99 , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian and money Finance be authorized to study , to the in the report , the Estimates expenditures in the Estimates Supplementary ( A ) the the fiscal the closing the 31 March 2000 , the the exception of the credit 10a the the Parliament and the the credit 25a the the Council Office .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Estimates , the Estimates , 1999 - 2000
referred to the credit 25a the the Council Office the the committee Joint Committee of the Official Languages
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . , pursuant to the opinion of the 16 November 99 , moved :
that the Committee Joint Committee of the Official Languages be authorized to study of spending expenditures the the credit 25a the the Council Office content in the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A ) the the fiscal the closing the 31 March 2000 ; and
that a message be restored to the House of the House of the in the .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Estimates , the Estimates , 1999 - 2000
referred to the credit 10a the the Council Office the the committee Joint Committee of the Library of the talking
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . , pursuant to the opinion of the 16 November 99 , moved :
that the Committee Joint Committee of the Library of the Parliament , though the study of spending expenditures the the credit 10a the the Parliament Vote in the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A ) the the fiscal the closing the 31 March 2000 ; and
that a message be restored to the House of the House of the in the .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Code offence - Act , the system Correctional and the implementation of freedom the condition
bill to the Second - Second Reading - Adjourned the the debate
the honourable senators , I rise to speak to propose the the bill to the C - 247 the third time second time and the free the debate on the bill to the .
the the time at the the authors of serial many . the be burdened the Canadian and disappointment additional , not be the the the Canadian a day , the one hour to the second , the third or even the eleventh murder corner that they depend .
the bill to the C - 247 personally , the Canadian concept that the the authors of serial many should be eligible to a bombing Earl , the purg? the 10 , 25 years of their only to Dave the perp?tuit? , what the Senate . the Canadian traffic that they have made .
the bill to the Canadian Albina Guarnieri break this cash and will the the judges the possibility of chickens the the Throne proportionnelles the the crimes committed .
they will then the environment necessary to add a day , a year or to the 25 years of the " the only penalty .
the only murderers the agreements with the this opportunity will those burdened to the the traffic many .
the bill to the C - 247 was the C - Naturalization the the years of the last session .
the Senate . m the bill to the C - Naturalization the 8 June 99 during the last days of the session .
in determining , the bill to the C - Naturalization the allotted to the Order .
Le19 October , the Canadian House of the House , Albina Guarnieri the report his bill to the C - 247 the was in the the former Bill , the C - Naturalization .
the bill to the C - 247 the summer read the first Reading the the Senate . 2 November .
honourable senators , for four years , informed the summer saisies the the bill to the subamendment four clauses different , the the C - 274 , the C - 321 the 1996 , the C - Naturalization the 1997 and maintenantle C - 247 .
it is the the importance of the opinion of the House of the House of the cabinet and the Minister responsible .
the bill to the C - 247 is a bill to the Canadian government Parliamentary prepared , defended and sponsored the Canadian House of the House of Albina Guarnieri , the characteristically Liberal the Mississauga - east , in the Toronto .
this bill to the effectiveness , a question " significant and burning , the condition of the system of justice criminal the the Canada .
Albina Guarnieri I was asked the entertainment the bill to the chamber and the the defence the the Senate .
i the wish to high regard .
despite the many obstacles the deliberate the purpose of the road , it has made preliminary the bill to the .
all the Canadian , the many .
i the support in his efforts , particularly in the task difficult to the " encaisser the error brutaux the are reports to the trade , the home caucus , a field of the relationship human which is that close look .
honourable senators , the 18 August 1997 , the Surrey , in British - British , I have attended the company of Albina Guarnieri the the hearing , in order to the article 745 , the the highest Clifford Olson .
no arrangement not had been made by the Hill General or the court to allow the Canadian and members of " that hearing .
the House Liberal , the House of the House , Dan McTeague and Paul Steckle were also reflected , the same that John Nunziata , a former MP Liberal today , independent , and many members of the Liberal Party .
Christie Blatchford the very well described this hearing .
in the article entitled : " Clifford Olson' s macabre circus' the , The the 19 August 1997 , the Toronto Sun , it is :
the senator Liberal Anne Cools was so choqu?e that it was almost incoh?rente , saying of the models that the " cirque macabre the biggest the was in the Canadian attend the the court was so unkind that it was absolutely to a thing for the morale , otherwise , not be not the intended to have the
honourable senators , the 1 December 1998 , in the testimony before the committee Standing the Canadian law and the the rights of the human the Canadian House of the House of the Canadian the bill to the C - Naturalization , today , the C - 247 , Albina Guarnieri the outset the hearing the Constitution of the article 745 , chaired by the Krever Richard Low , the Canadian Court Supreme the Canadian British - British , in giving a lawyer , the highest Olson .
it has said :
the I , the time , the alarmant in the civil Olson the motion a when Olson the third , high Senators a letter of the lawyer , conseillant the truth of a single anyone all the traffic that he was terrible .
the , innocuous the lawyer , Olson the fullest benefit of the system of Speech prosper .
Olson the said that the lawyer , the Clerk of participation benefit of the system of Speech prosper .
Albina Guarnieri goes :
Olson the nargu? the court in their lot : " scrap not have no to the
they not have the " to a worthwhile concurrente the .
just to you to a small idea of the other councils any of the member esteemed of the Chambre as Olson , Olson the arts a letter of the lawyer , " :
eighteenth a plan the boss the first , to the so that you are completely sufficient the the dismay the Canadian the Canadian policiers boy - scouts too z?l?s .
the tax . ratified prosper is avantageuse to the authors nasty the traffic many of the Prime and the the second degree .
Albina Guarnieri we , extended outright the review this hitting the Canadian political public , the determination of the only to the respect to preclude , and the particular , the authors ratified , obstin?s , incorrigibles and nasty the traffic many of the Prime and the the second degree .
he is a the Canadian determination of the only to the the actions do bad .
the " You the motion of " rarely used because the Hon. the demands a definition of the " . " and the Canadian source of the " . " .
the most , these words , the well , and the difficulty the , imposed a debate moral , and a debate on the concept of a be transcendant , a d?it? , God as volunteers of the the the motion . .
the Canadian the public . our attendance , the development of the political public and the debate on the issues are internationalist the conviction morality , the the giving the the Canadian yearly . called the " the public , nue the .
many of leadership political current the strove the grain the political the Canadian moral and the grain the theme public . the conviction personal , in saying the make the the name of the sending moral .
the debate public and political , the Parliament , the Canadian the public , in the absence of principles and the conviction morality , is a debate rhetoric and 50 .
the debate on the place public and the the Parliament require no , the leadership their views their convictions morality and ?thiques in the debate , and the debate must face of the justifications morality .
honourable senators , these games time , and the nine the ultraright the existence of the m?chancet? human and that it has a the UN and the th?ories .
the very few explanation of the m?chancet? the people were direction . the Order Summa .
however , the UN th?ologiques are ?cart?es the our attendance , the name of the sending moral .
however , who , working in the services of tracking , in the services of police , in the area of the passage and the the right p?nal , and the the services social , the same that the political and the relationship political , knowing that the m?chancet? human there .
it is really .
they know also that the m?chancet? human will the the difficulty the anyone . approach too , it .
the difficulty . the nature and characteristic of the rights , the well , the the harm and the the unnoticed .
" Hope Centre Healing Russel Evil .
the comments of the difficulty , the effraie with the Canadian most of the people , the Dr Peck wrote the Canadian page 42 :
the fact that we do we not the definition generally accepted the the difficulty testimony of the tremendous mystery of the subject .
i believe that the headwind , we have all of some understanding of the nature .
this savant psychiatrist we informed that he not there is the definition generally accepted the the difficulty , and we talking the the tremendous mystery of the m?chancet? human and the understanding entering the us in the .
the doctor Peck wrote , the " the page 46 :
that he suffice the ultraright that , the the us not horses not yet the one bloc the knowledge scientific the the difficulty that he vaille the only to honour to the term , psychologie the , the experts the the behaviour . looked the the basis , travelling possible the development of a moment psychologie .
the newly the the inconscient by Freud and the concept of the Shadows the Korean are all of fundamental .
including our shortages in the knowledge of the difficulty , he has seconded the efforts of the doctor Eric Fromm to the study .
the doctor Peck the said , the Canadian page 47 :
however , the question own experience , the ones human the the livrent the the difficulty are very large and monitorings usually very ordinary the the most of a observer not caring .
the honourable senators , sponsored that it is the assimilation had indicated that Paul Bernardo and his wife , Karla Homolka , seemed quite normal and the hallmark .
honourable senators , the Clifford Olson and Karla Homolka not have not patients , or mentalement or physiquement .
they are all just nasty .
all agree that he is being m?chant to defeat the life of blood - cold , intentionnellement , deliberately , and the way person .
he is being m?chant to assassiner crudely , deliberately and the blood - cold many people human , especially the the children vulnerable and the Defence , to the island of the impulsions allowing d?brid?es , the the perversions allowing and the information . gratification sexual .
a monopoly , chiefly the the treatment or the the remedies .
in addition , the concept at the disease accessibility . Undeterred not to explain the difficulty and the the Fish , because these Offenders not have not patients .
the word " illness to mean that the the comfortable .
further , the matter , the the comfortable , and behaviour . the g?ne no .
the highest Olson is the " the " the comfortable with his communications .
he sign the correspondence to Clifford Robert Olson , TUEUR EN S?RIE the clearing children , the
i have received a the the correspondence that he was signed the this way .
the lines April 1996 , the the Senate , I have raised the question of privilege , the the words of the rule 43 ( 1 ) the the Rules , the comments of this letter .
the Speaker of the Senate . necessary to the not there was not interfere the the privilege to the view .
the highest Olson not . not patient , he is m?chant .
he appear that the ministers and their services parties . Farmers not the type of the the the Parliament , excluded the the process of developing the Canadian political respecting the this issue crucial .
it . the Financial the so , clearly , the examination of my two - the bill , the Canadian d?tenueKarla Homolka and the agreements steely the the leaders of Murder , the summer interrompu sommairement and that the Statutory the summer retir?s the the Order .
in 1997 , I have gained this initiative in the bill to the S - 16 , the inclusion a certain Karla Homolka , and that the , the Chair . the scheduled the withdrawal .
in the second , the in 1996 , the the subject of the bill to the S - 4 , the Act , Code offence ( agreed to the Opposition the charge ) , the study of my bill to the the summer inquire , the the committee that the problems of time , the my opinion , for the in impr?gner , the the one debate that was the , and the the fact , hear , less witness .
the only witnesses received by the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional to the bill to the S - 4 , in mills the question own one , the summer the representatives of the Department of the Justice , Mr. Yvan Roy bearer Fred Bobiasz , lawyers instituted the Canadian 110 the Canadian political and the Canadian amendment of the right to the criminal .
these witnesses . essentially asked to the committee , reject the government .
my vocal not have wanted or the one debate or the one of the
they have been amend the bill to the or even reject my the parliamentary , a review thorough and a debate coast .
honourable senators , the Canadian the hearing demand?e by Olson the Constitution of the article 745 and the the in the " Surrey , in British - British , I have learned that is m?meM. Yvan Roy , the the Department of the Justice , was the place , the Canadian section of the media .
Christie Blatchford , the I have already cit?e , the eyes the presence of these officials to Surrey .
it . " in the words :
... the officials of the Justice were there for the Canadian and information on this section controversial .
it travail these officials as the Ir?ne Arsenault , Analysis , Black with the media , Division of the business public . the Department of the Justice ; Fraser Simons , Director regional the Canadian Wheat the the lib?rations conditional , the Canadian Abbotsford ; and , for words , " used by Blatchford , the the cerveau the , Yvan Roy .
the the previous that the people who have quotes the openness of Homolka were George Thomson , the - prosecutor General of the Ontario , and the subamendment , prosecutor Deputy , Michael Code .
i rise note that , then , the Senate was probably the my the Canadian law , the subject of Homolka , the m?meGeorge Thomson is much of the Minister of the Justice the Ottawa , the the time when Allan Rock , was the Minister , lone the the fact , boss Mr. Roy , the the cerveau the .
honourable senators , the the Canada , the not want to the the the minds the parliamentary the the board of the justice criminal , in particular , the the concerns of determination of the only and the scores .
the bill to the C - 247 is the " the one opinion Parliamentary not deal with the summer agreed to the House of the House of a vote majority , the so , Minister of the Justice not the not the agreement .
the entire clearly , the opinion of the Minister . was not the Canadian the majority of the House .
the observers looking our work for the so , awareness of the Minister of the Justice pr?vaudra now , the Senate .
Albina Guarnieri the point of the important , the p?nal , the same the Canadian determination of the only and the the scores in the case of murderers dangerous .
the real question the Act , woman , the value real , the Canadian life of a be human by the " the sentence penalty to the the the ability to the number lives .
either the 1 December 1998 , the committee Standing the Canadian law and the the rights of the human the Canadian House of the common , Albina Guarnieri the said that the following :
the Canadian . the ever voted for the Throne prosper .
the not to the ever to the their identity , and leads Canada , was the Canadian a system of determination of the only the laxiste , and other , the respect to the violeurs and the the Wappel .
the Throne prosper will the the supreme the Canadian concept fundamental the justice .
the fact is that the Canadian farmers . each murder or indirectly sexual , each victim , the be comptabilis? in the documentation of the only .
in communiquant the the committee , successful the one poll that it was it is the scheduled , and the one was prorogued by the sondeur POLLARA the the Liberal Party , it has said :
this is why 90 per - and Canadians are supporters of change the bill to the government that the people interprovincial guilty of several serial or trial allowing purgent the the Throne consecutive to each offence .
this is that the the indicated a survey national organization , POLLARA the months , the
this poll the well for the plight that the only cent per - and Canadians are proceeding to the status quo .
the broad clear our condition Parliamentary and political , the the House as the people must be used to the plebiscite rather than the one debate weighted to convince the courts political the the opinion public .
Albina Guarnieri retirements , the Greeks the Hon. the Canadian law :
if the by the inclusion of the tax . ratified prosper , the not the no the Canadian and other compensation to lead the first victim of a violeur or the one meurtrier , the principle is bafou? .
the subject of my bill to the motion of demanding that each offence to the bill that a consequential .
the the dark consecutive the only the eligibility the Canadian bombing Earl in the case of serial many of the Prime and the the second degree and a worthwhile cons?cutive to each act of sexual exploitation favoriseraient a fair proportional the 24 more to the system just and balanced the prominent the Canadian .
honourable senators , the bill to the C - 247 not the the state of our legal the most of the the the government has been name to the article 745 the the Code offence , the purpose the signing the 1996 by the bill to the C - 45 , the Act , Code offence ( review judicial the the inadmissibilit? the Canadian bombing Earl ) .
as we , we , the Throne the perp?tuit? is the only detention to the traffic the the Prime and the the second degree .
this is the air policy that the the fact , ratified to obtain the removal of the only one .
this only detention was a motion and stays the one time fixed the Throne before the the Criminal that the right to ask a bombing Earl .
in the case of a murder the the Prime degree , the date of eligibility the Canadian bombing Earl survenait , 25 years adequate the Throne and , in the case of a murder the the second degree , after a period of Dave the 10 years .
honourable senators , he does numerous in the public that the " confonde the only to Dave the perp?tuit? to murder the the Prime degree and the 25 years , are indeed purg?es before the the offender not be eligible to the bombing Earl .
the only to Dave the perp?tuit? waiting to the Canadian reseller the Canadian life of the offender , as the words , " .
the length of the mandate is the Canadian the life of the offender .
the date of statutory the the mandate is the Canadian the Late the the highest .
the Biohazard Correctional the the Canada says , the date of statutory the the mandate to the
the only waiting the Canadian life .
he stunning a great confusion the the subject .
the Canadian and people think that the Throne the life . the length of 25 years .
the system of bombing Earl is a form of cl?mence Royal the basis to the highest the intention to purger his only in the community , outside of the walls the one prison .
a place form of cl?mence Royal is the CRTC the Canadian only to death in trouble the Throne the perp?tuit? .
this is that the the summer provided in the bill to give the " the air policy of 1976 to the GST the only one .
however , the air is now attack the the evolution of the process of determination of the only , the compromet the justice . - the .
in 1996 , the bill to the C - 45 the by the government modifiait the article 745 to prevent the authors of serial many of the one of judicial the their deadline of eligibility the Canadian bombing Earl .
in the that , the government has agreed . the part of the border the Albina Guarnieri , recognizing that the authors of serial many were purger a worthwhile . long before the be eligible to the bombing Earl .
honourable senators , I have already developed , as the existence the Canadian the article 745 and proposed the the Senate justly the case of the shortcomings evident in the bill to the S - 6 , the Act , Code offence ( matter pre the Canadian bombing Earl ) , the I have the in 1996 .
the the subject of the bill to the C - 45 , I have stated that is the one amendment to a clause have token .
during the debate . the 12 December 1996 , I have said : "
honourable senators , in 1976 , the article 745 the the Code offence the Donkin the the courts of the powers inhabituels their extended the Constitution the decisions the courts senior - the the powers which are normally although the the years of Appeal , the the authorities net of the power to cl?mence or the the Governor General .
he has transpired the the courts of the powers inhabituels their extended the Constitution the Throne d?termin?es by the courts representing the matter of the decisions .
this is something that the motion tell the the years of Appeal and the the authorities net of the power to cl?mence .
the article 745 the in the effect . came to give the the courts the power to give the cl?mence .
this power do the full , the some organizations specific .
the bill to the C - 45 goes the powers to the judges in the , the the terms of powers of the Parliament of the following the the best of the people .
the fight , the powers of the judges in the will thereafter .
as we , we , the Canadian Constitution , these power to the not been fed to the judges in the or the the courts because the the are the the powers political .
this are the the powers exceeding by the representatives of the corporation .
he not agree that the the power to cl?mence the Queen Majesty the level , the courts or the judges ; it is the be the the executive .
he is a that the one power executive .
honourable senators , the bill to the Canadian Albina Guarnieri the the Throne consecutive based on the grounds ?rig?s by the government to the article 745 the synthetic the judges the basis of office of the time , colonial .
in the case of the authors of serial many of the argument malins , the bill to the C - 247 specific that , when the contrevenant is recognized contempt of the traffic , the judges can extend the period for the the contrevenant is unacceptable to the bombing Earl the the ordonnant the purger a time , colonial Supplementary the not be however , 2003 25 years .
otherwise , the the time , colonial not be 2003 50 years .
the article 745 is a solution policy resolution in 1976 to meet a compromise billion in 1976 .
we have the Canadian new solutions and the absence of new solutions in the case of psychopathies virulentes not do that undermine the confidence the Canadian public in the system and that gridlock the land of the Canadian , wish to Stated the Canadian only to death .
the bill to the C - 247 is a compromise the the year 2000 , the result of the practical contains , the the shortcomings the the article 745 and the the Throne generally cut the the response patently malins .
honourable senators , in the case of psychopathies and the psychopathologies Mudslide , the fact , the motion that the psychopathes and the sociopathes are the sournois , the rus?s and the ing?nieux that the authorities .
the claimants Olson and Homolka we in deceiving the the examples frappants .
the fact that the prisonni?re Homolka that continue to the committee , law turn to Sen my comments .
honourable senators , he is essential to put the the examination of the Parliament , the Canadian law criminal , the statutory the passage , the sophisticated , the criminal , the guideline of determination of the only and the bombing Earl .
the Canadian the hearing the the highest Olson the demand?e the Constitution of the article 745 , I have been witness the this broader rounds that is our system of justice .
the Krever the chairmanship the hearing chaired a hearing policy .
this hearing was officially and the political , it is the not a noble legal .
the Krever , the jury and the the world , in this room the deputy .
we attended greatly emotional the the independence of the judges and the the power judicial the hiring of judges of this manner .
i am sure that the majority of the Canadian be armed . suffice the highest Olson ?visc?r? , ?cartel? , the " the blanketed and d?capit? , because of offending the the the mistake were and the more substantial r?pugnants to the ones human that we are , but we do believe that the Canadian only one .
is why we granted , debate today , the
the highest Olson the cost to our country . the $ the $ with his many fantaisies court , the court in justice and his pr?tendues legends legal , there was the hearing the the the demand?e the Constitution of the article 745 .
the the the the notori?t? the in the good , the motion that it has the Canadian the teachers incarc?r? .
i can you say that one . the lib?rera .
Karla Homolka is the equivalent the most natural .
honourable senators , I have the part of the board national the the lib?rations conditional .
i have examined , the the issues , the the reports the autopsie , the the reports the police , the the judges and the the statements of Justice the the time , the determination of the only .
i have cite the many held and power or suspended , the the lib?rations conditional .
i have learned that he is very rare the same the the response to pulsion meurtri?re the motion Benefit the stuff pr?dateurs and the the delinkage by their executive to the attempted , but that is the however , fr?quent that the the opinion or the " means , the ultraright .
the ability to the pr?dateurs the choosing their blood . exploitant their vuln?rabilit? is diabolique .
the talking about the the two Houses of the Parliament of the case of paraphilie and the politic , the the psychopathes , the the sociopathes and the the unrest the behaviour .
he is before the the unrest the pulsions Mudslide ?rotiques the the Homolka and the the Olson and the people consequences of the system of justice .
the most of the us not we understand the lack of compassion human , their deceit orchestr?es , their d?sirs sexual d?s?quilibr?s , their mother , and narcissisme absolute and their profligate d?prav?es .
he is that we doing their ability to manipulate with great the people and the disadvantages , including the disadvantages democratic , and their ability to visa the the incr?dulit? and the naive the the people .
Three Essays the " Theory of Sexuality The Signe Works , Issue 7 , the doctor Sigmund Freud the actions on the unrest linked to the pulsions allowing .
the Canadian page 111 the the road the 1979 the Canadian home Penguin , he stated : "
the absence of the roadblocks the Canadian piti? the Adieu the the risk that the link between the stuff ratified and the stuff ?rog?nes , established in the Victoria the temperatures impossible to resale the the age adulthood .
we talking here , d?viants sexual evil .
he is a the traumatic the the crimes attracted by the the pulsions ?rog?nes occupation , incorrigibles and Mudslide .
honourable senators , the fiscal the the power sovereign in the scores the one conducted is a the the issues essential to the board of the justice .
the person read section of the page 48 :
the right to punish is therefore , above the the right to the sovereign of the Canadian War , the enemy ; the right to punish provincial and the " right absolute the life and the death that the right Roman Order merum imperium , the in order comes the Church offered to the the the bill be respected in ordonnant that the crimes that neglect -
but the scores is also a way of the justice . the plan as personal that public , since the strength physico - political the the sovereign is the in a sense in the bill ... the
i am well , to Her the , honourable senators ,
in our system , the talking the prerogative Royal in justice .
the presence of the Queen in the bill , the temperatures a " as the Queen , Homolka , proving clear the right to each citizen of the the Canadian Queen , the source of the justice , and the justice .
it proves the right to obtain justice . the accusateur , the Canadian Queen , and the the victims , in the case , this , small heckling Mahaffy and Kristen French , the not , the Canadian and children .
the scores the the crimes and the Throne cut sending the the principles that are the vectors , the neutralisation , the mental and the scores .
the scores , the Canadian difference of the vengeance , is the Assemblies just the the rights by the offender the Canadian peace - the Queen and the the issues of the Queen , the , in the case , we ' s all the children .
the scores the ever be temp?r? by the cl?mence the Canadian Queen .
the Krever MacKeigan , the Canadian Court of Appeal of the Nova Scotia Nova , the one pleas the the most steely the vote of the tax . ratified consecutive .
the Canadian page 443 the Hon. judgment of 1975 in the case R . R Muise , he wrote :
this principle , which I embrace the greatest of the point very fair to the lawyer , Muise , lots of my own conviction the means that the bill , in telecommunication the the Krever the power to condemn a person appropriately contempt of a violation to a worthwhile the Throne , even in the turning to the make , not be not be advised as the the requirement the " the Krever the matter of only to Dave to a second offence concomitante with the only penalty by the or a place Justice to a place offence .
in infligeant a worthwhile refer concurrente the one offender , the not the punit not the the first because the the not . not the Canadian purger a single day , Dave ; none . " to the same day , prison two , the not more than it is the be Ere two , the
in infligeant a worthwhile concurrente , a judge not fulfilling . not the duty , the least , the same , in the Code or the right p?nal the General , the power to the make .
i pray all the honourable senators , to the the bill to the C - 247 the the attention adapt .
i wish to the " valid , the the motion in the Canadian killers the shadow evil .
he not to a not the poor young woman who , the the stars the one accrochage with their parents , the highlights the wrath , the tranquility CANBAT the one flight to coast army .
he not . not here . the the offender crimes despair .
this are the the people who donate very froidement the killing that a and the the people of full accord with pr?m?ditation and cruelty .
he is clearly time that the system and that the Senate recognize that the politic there .
the Honourable Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , I wish question . the " the subject of this town prepared with due and the one bill to the very contentious and hard .
he not appropriate not the I say in the context that the senator Cools would have done in solo , it would have the make , but I wish indeed , that the the motion of the very difficult .
the senator Cools is a person who knows very well . in the
the senator Cools :
i thank the Honourable Senator the the question .
this is the dilemma that problem . The 745 the the Code offence of the Canada .
as the I know , the majority of the honourable are the the abolitionnistes convinced the not wish no not the the " r?instaure a day , only one .
the the time , the adoption of the article 745 , he not had not been expected to each meurtrier recognized contempt of Murder the the Prime degree the pr?vaudrait the this provision .
in fact , the in the time to deal this provision of the very routini?re , and the motion . the difference the problem .
the situation . the subject is very clear .
in the Bill C C - 45 , the government bearer Rock , the Minister of the Justice of the time , the contribution of the changes from Section 745 the view of laying some line .
the Bill C C - 247 refers that all these changes have been woefully and that the other measures to impose .
i know that many of senators want to the the debate on the bill to the .
in my conclusion , the debate . second reading , I have the intent of the the history of the sanctions and the the lib?rations conditional .
i will the the Senate . Taylor the the evolution of the jurisprudence the the years des20 years in the I initiate how it has led to the situation exists in the determination of the only .
the Honourable Senator Finestone the disasters , full in the educated .
the subject require the the " the in annoying .
i hope that some questions surgiront the the years of the debate .
why the judges . Concludes - they not the the Throne consecutive , as they the ability ?
the senator Finestone :
this is a case . came .
the senator Cools :
i preface that all the traffic are inhabituels .
if the point of the exception assessment , we do have not need to amend the the murder because the the traffic are inhabituels .
the people . the were not , the tree human not impressed the .
this is very real .
i have a producer impressive the documents the the kind of individuals .
this , not . not be unusual the the Wappel , the are the chronic .
the r?cidive not . not unusual among the category of individuals that we lifelong the Wappel many .
some people , there was Albina Guarnieri , believe that he is necessary to codifier the way started .
in short , ces20 years in the Canadian outlines the ground in a sense , the the , today , the the judges . the not trying to impose the the Throne consecutive .
if the looking back to the time , 1980 and vigorous the civil Mr. Olson , the - be a sentence would the it ignores different the the condemnation the clearing ratified prosper the Throne the life and the jurisprudence would be another .
we do we not forget that a be human not the the one only life , live .
this is the " the true .
the example , the the United - United , the courts impose the the Throne the 200 or $ 75 .
it is the fact that the the Canada .
in the history of the only one , the very the the offender reviews many times .
the , a person could be condamn?e the be d?capit?e to a top , the the was generally the fate tell the the aristocrates .
it could be condamn?e the die ?cartel?e , mutil?e or br?l?e in the the Chatham .
he is the Canadian many ways of killing of the Canadian , one .
the Canadian reseller the the years 1790 , State J . I. Guillotin the battlefield the guillotine , as barbare that this may we sound of our attendance , it was considered to the time as a technological fantastique as a the traumatic the offender .
the regarded the the time that all the ones human not had the one of the losing and that they not should die that a single time .
1.4 Guillotin the report his reform , he has said that a be human should die only a time and that the death be a quick .
i hope that helped that the my honourable friend .
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin :
in the speech , her the senator Cools has the said Mr. Olson not be ever free ?
the senator Cools :
yes , I have said that is the the kind .
the senator Nolin :
if this man will remain in prison to the rest of the life , the - it is why why the law , the right will allow the this individual the sidelines the types to the naive the the life ?
the senator Cools :
this is the not a question of law , the right .
Mr. . Olson the summer sentenced the the Throne the perp?tuit? and the courts can live the quota , 15 years of the eligibility the one bombing Earl .
when I have said Mr. Olson not be ever free , I do have the - be not have used the word " have the .
i would have the the " is at the side , the the system and all the people working in the system clarifying Olson know very well , involves Mr. Olson done to the Canadian public .
i am the the honourable senators , the feeling public . , is a unifying contraignant .
it is announcing clear that day - that the the hearing the the in the " Surrey , in British - British .
i am here for the " and honourable senators , and the the senator Nolin , particularly , the so , public cessait a moment of " the matter Olson , he is the well , this man nervous , the one way or the one another , the information , and the freedom .
the the claimants the I have heard that the people tueraient a time university the types , I , I would a great many .
when I say that I have I heard that these things , I wish to the the was the reference in the reports the their intention of killing the their forty the types .
i am the the Honourable Senator that , the the the very a day to the opposite with some of these individuals , as it . is out in the system carc?ral , he will be afraid .
when we doing the bill to the C - 45 , we had a list of claimants saw the the improvement of the article 745 the the Code offence , the some of the noviciate race I - the time I admit the Canadian Wheat national the the lib?rations conditional .
in our the list , I am I reminded , particularly the the name of a huge the one that the the independents the suggested that he polled and tuerait the new .
the senator Nolin :
we priority .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the period of time meeting for the speech and the issues . completed .
the agreement .
the senator Nolin :
honourable senators , not we m?prenons not .
if the board of the lib?rations conditional the the power to take a decision , the motion because the Canadian law , provides that the .
when I speak to the law , the right , the motion exactly the that the I speak .
i am shocked the suggested that the senator Cools , a former member of the board , the the right to take a moment to the so that Commissioner .
it is that the the it was educated , the the time , the some of the individuals who appeared before the were the future criminals , but that it is the way . .
the senator Cools :
we have made to the government .
the senator Nolin :
the odd - they are in prison ?
the senator Cools :
in the case , the I have dropped the system of freedom kept the the b?n?ficiait .
he is editor in prison .
i refer to many years , later .
the senator Nolin :
you prouvez the the I soutiens .
the bill , the the Canada , it . the power to the commission and the the different ministers of the Justice of the provinces .
i do think that the the " may r?habiliter a monopoly individual .
this is my say , the motion that the legislation current can get these problems for the the provinces are Province properly , not . - that the ?
the senator Cools :
the senator Nolin :
if it is enough . , her the senator think it is both or three ratified consecutive are a solution ?
the senator Cools :
this is my say , the senator , and the " includes the question . " , the motion that four principles be adequate the determination of the only , and not any what Justice or jury must be the Canadian . four principles of each , the other .
the one of these principles . the neutralisation , the motion ? " - that the the need prevent the offender the mistake a place crime .
this is my say , the senator , the the the r?pugne the the ultraright , but I will be the my best to the function , but it is admit that is that difficult - that is that he is the somewhat the " correct .
honourable senators , I have the the most of the Canadian The the " the summer has the , the few days .
he is the question of a huge called Adrian Kinkead , the I do I have heard about .
i do know that all the details and I do I do . " suited , because I do I do the knowledge of the case .
i close my information of the only , the
in the case , this , the Hill the the Department public . " to the Krever the treatment the judgment to the the adoption of the bill to the .
that he is whether the the case , this or the one another , I say , the senator Nolin that , in our ageing policy , we in this outstanding the one at the the Parliament must give a certain attention to the issues .
the senator Nolin :
the senator we ask the us deal of a change the principle to the second reading .
the senator Cools :
he not there has not the change the principle .
the senator Nolin :
this is that the the senator to the
explain the honourable , the chamber , you not the right . the .
the senator Cools :
he not there has not the change .
the senator Nolin :
in the last answer to her the senator has made , it has made reference to the four principles .
i think that he would be the make the or the council the " and honourable senators , he is the only a decades , we fouettions , the violeurs the the Canada .
the senator Cools :
certainly , we had the usual the the removal .
the senator Nolin :
why we , we changed this used ?
the comments , we do lifelong the the people - that the the " violeurs the .
the senator Finestone :
how the definition of you the ?
the senator Nolin :
i believe that the the Order of the " perpetrators sexual the .
we have evolved .
the only to the cut not only to the punish .
the senator Cools :
this is a bad example , but none will .
the senator Nolin :
let - I Donna the question I question , I would please .
i have suggested the Honourable Senator Donna the speech .
today , the the not to a more only to punish .
the determination of the only to based on some principles and her the senator must tell the this chamber , before the us not we prononcions the the reading of the second reading , what happens it would be changed , why it is that he be changed , and the event that change affectera the the other principles .
if it does the " person , I am pleased to the support .
i do believe that the the senator , the truly explained to this , the the least , after the the I have heard .
the - be should the us send the bill to the " a committee before the us deal to the reading of the second reading , because he is the that the difficulty of principles in principle .
the Honourable Senator has made out that he is the consensus to the not back to only to death .
why ?
he must be there have the the reasons .
the senator Cools :
i do not . the the grounds of the senator .
i have said that I would appreciate the look at interest . as the the bill to the C - 45 , by the .
personally , the bill to the C - 247 based in particular , and the committee is invited to hear , the witnesses as the faculty Manfredi and Knopff - the the four principles of the determination of the only .
the extent legislation underlies the ports , the most retooled the principle of the proportionnalit? , the the means that the only be proportional the the offence commise .
i have a little of hard to understand how the Honourable Senator might argue that the bill to the not . not proceed to the principles of the determination of the only and I , let why .
this bill to the the previous was passed to the House of the House and , in the part of the adoption , I trust that the many people of the committee .
this bill to the Canadian government Parliamentary not . not new .
it is splitting years , he is presently and examined by the House of the House .
i specific the the Honourable Senator that the bill to the respect and confirm the principle of the vectors , the principle of the mental , the principle of the neutralisation and the principle of the proportionnalit? .
this are there are four principles of the determination of the only .
the bill to the motion quite consistent the the principles .
the most , the the plans policy and legal , he built on the grounds created by the government .
this is the government , the fund the article 745 the basis to the judges , the the not to the ever seen , the establishing the time , colonial .
this is the this section that the overlapping the bill to the .
the - the motion consistent , only to the principles of the determination of the only , but also to the political , the summer resolutions by the government . years in the the existing the form of the - down as the Bill C C - 45 , his firm at the the the inclusion of the new section 745 the the Code offence .
the senator Nolin :
i am sure that the Hon. the Canadian this issue , the Honourable Senator know that the one of the principles in principle is the Charter of the rights and Freedoms .
the senator Cools :
that he I would trust .
i have examined the Charter .
the senator Nolin :
the focus the things , the clear , in the case of a contrevenant the the broad impose two ratified , is the the the the Throne the life correspondrait the one only detention of 50 years ?
the senator Cools :
this is the not the the first , the proposed the extent .
the - be the senator . includes the not the bill to the .
the senator Nolin :
what would the floor of a worthwhile the Throne the life ?
the senator Cools :
the floor , the same for the time in the bill .
the Royal meeting , the bill is causing in the bill to the .
the senator . the the person - be not including , but I - I hope the in persuading ?
the bill to the basis to the Krever , in the case of the speech , ratified many of Murder , the repudiate the one day , the one year additional the date of eligibility the Canadian bombing Earl .
the , if a person is completed , inculp?e and condamn?e the Canadian and disappointment many of Murder the the Prime or the the second degree , the Krever the Whole the one only to 10 years , such a the Prime murder then add two or three years of Dave before the Canadian Human that the eligible to the freedom inmates .
the Honourable Senator seems that the the bill to the the summer of Amateur 25 years , the only to purger .
the .
the bill to the limit simply the margin of RRSP the the magistrat .
the result , in order to the bill to the , the Krever the state of the sentence a year , or two , or three , or more , the " competition . a maximum of 25 years .
i hope that the senator understands the present .
the senator Nolin :
the Honourable Senator must give a explanation clear to the honourable senators ,
the the motion poses that a individual , Windsor three of the Canadian and opportunities separate and the Canadian and psychological different , three ratified the Throne the perp?tuit? the will disproportionately .
he not . not the chamber . a year , the two years and the three years .
the senator Cools :
yes , the motion . the the motion . .
the senator Nolin :
her the senator would the it . please the " tell this ?
the senator Cools :
i am pleased to provide a explanation to the Honourable Senator .
in the other words , as I , I said before the Albina Guarnieri the motion seconded the the touchstone legislative created by the article 745 , the synthetic the Krever the repudiate the date of eligibility the Canadian bombing Earl .
this is the system of the
the bill to the will the the Krever , in the part of a place only , the state of years or five years , the period of inadmissibilit? the Canadian bombing Earl .
this aspect of the bill to the motion in astucieux , he is done exactly the the border the the appropriateness the the development of the article 745 and the the amendments to the article 745 in the bill to the C - 45 .
the border . exactly the same .
the senator Nolin :
what would the maximum ?
the senator Cools :
the bill to the specific however , the power Supplementary the motion received the the Krever the repudiate the date of inadmissibilit? the Canadian bombing Earl is deduct the 25 years additional .
this is the limit .
the senator Nolin :
this is 25 years additional .
the senator Cools :
this is the not 25 years additional .
this is a total Supplementary the 25 years .
the senator Nolin :
this is that the honourable precise the " .
the senator Cools :
i do I do that this .
in the other words , the only to Dave the perp?tuit? remains .
the highest purge , a worthwhile the Throne the perp?tuit? .
the result , the powers supplied the people were powers to the Krever the the article 745 are the same that those that the the bill to the C - 247 , except that he is a the one French extended by the " the French - the article 745 .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , before the clock the debate on the name of the one of my colleagues , I wish to the the speech . interesting and very important that the senator Cools has discharged this afternoon , afternoon and the point of the .
i must confess that the relative to Sigmund Freud expliquant the the motion of hindsight sociopathique the Canadian personality the Main my attention .
i am sure that the adherents the Canadian psychanalyse , the the summer created by Sigmund Freud , the people . own mind , the reasons , 269 why the people . conventions as they the people , particularly in the people drop by this bill to the
he would however n?gligent the country , the not . Rou that he is the many other th?ories the Canadian personality .
i think , by the , the the school of psychologie the spread Adler the one image . the positive the Canadian personality human , and that the the school of psychanalyse the Carl Gustav jung , a junior . the black the Canadian personality human , there was in the case of those who could be diagnostiqu?s as suffering of kids sociopathiques the Canadian personality .
he is the well . school of psychologie , clinical and social , the very that the president human is mall?able and adequate the be corrig?e and d?velopp?e the the plan social .
this is my wish add to the debate , the motion that , the the psychologists owned the various other schools , the ones human can be r?adapt?s and changed drastically the behaviour .
i do I do that the rest of a feeling pessimiste , the just , I think , the Canadian theory ?chafaud?e by Sigmund Freud .
it is , honourable senators , I move the adjournment of the debate on the name of the senator Di Nino .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Kinsella , the the name of the senator Di Nino , the debate is adjourned . )
the Committee of Selection
the Canadian the third report of Sittings of the article
the Order of the Order Order :
the Canadian the third report of the Committee of Selection ( b the Speaker in the lengths ) , the " the Senate 2 November 99 . - ( - ( Senator Jeffrey ) .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
the Hon. the Speaker :
is the the Canadian agreed , honourable senators , the knowledge that this section the order to the Order of the Order ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the article is withdrawn . )
business legal and Constitutional
motion requesting the authority to use of documents and evidence collected in the the examination of the bill to the previous to the study of the bill to the present , Charge the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Oliver , seconded by the Honourable Senator Di Nino :
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the Committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the the years of the study of the Bill C S - 17 , the Act , Code offence respect to the victim criminal and the Canadian and concerns related , the Canadian the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament , that removal the the Committee , when he will have set , for the present study of the bill to the S - 6 . - (
the Honourable Senator Cools ) .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , the point in the concerns of the " the Rules and the senator Kinsella , the subject of the wording of this motion .
i am I have speech . - that the
the senator Kinsella criteria the - be sorely that is the
he is a the one of the definitions the the " - to the this motion , including the Committee of the documents have received and the the evidence before heard by the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional .
i recognize now , honourable the the senator Cools .
the Honourable Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , as I have been stand during the the time , from the the reluctantly , I wish to the the motion that , the this matter that surgeons the near .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , we do we opposerions not to the adjournment of the motion of the senator Oliver .
however , it is significant , the looking deal of order to the Rules that I have the because the us are now before the one would the by the honourable the the side - the and the one of the motion introduced by the honourable the in the .
i believe that the the senator Cools has many worked the other things that the - afternoon and that His Honour the the cause more later .
however , he is the the " the other occasions , the honourable please that the the evidence precedents that removal the one of the
since it is the two schools of journalistic the Canadian . , I believe that we should take this day , the prior to His Honour not leaving the Senate .
the Canadian page 90 the the Debates of the Senate . the 3 November 99 , the senator Oliver out of existence of precedents .
he carried the Canadian formulation exactly the the motion found in a motion of the committee on the Canadian and aboriginal Peoples .
this afternoon , afternoon , the report of the committee on the Canadian and business foreign the Hon. the Act , European we , the paper .
the Canadian second page of the report , the Order of Reference is reproduit .
in this order to Committee , the very precise the same formulation , the knowledge that the documents received and the evidence heard the the subject , and that the Senate bearing by the committee on the Canadian and business foreign to the years of the first session of the th Parliament should be removed the the committee .
we are the opinion that we should continue to deal . the as we , we have the the past .
the senator Cools :
honourable senators , I will respond to the not lose the opportunity to say , wish to the point of the Rules .
the Parliament , closed the session . there has some months and the the date reprinted the activities .
the well that this issue , he is the committee on the question of the deliberations of committees , not , not completed the the time , the prorogation .
the my opinion , the bill to the C - 7 . " diff?rentdu bill to the S - 17 .
we do we not forget that , when a bill to the motion referred to a committee , in the case , the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional , the motion exactly . the the the very .
he is attempting that the
he has been suggested to the committee .
he is being the authority how the Senate may refer to a committee , this is it is the ever the knowledge .
when a committee receives a matter of the Senate , he must imperatives the Canadian the in student the bill to the .
this is the report of the committee , the faith the the respect to the request the the the summer the .
i have set in hand , or , Senator Kinsella .
the talking the one bill to the the the summer referred .
the comment 874 the precincts , sixth edition , specifically clear that :
the committee , not the not get the inquiry . the end of a session the make the " the House of the fact , and that the the evidence that he has heard .
the report makes the Canadian and evidence . was heard .
he can the addition recommend that the Canadian session following the House of merit the same matter and that he can the use of the evidence recueillie to the that the
in the case of the bill to the C - 7 , the was moved by the government with the support of the Canadian owner government and the full approval of the caucus of a party represented the the Senate , the Orders of " insisted . the the chairman of the committee . honourably the the Senate and the one of liquor that the study of the bill to the was documentary and that the committee wants make the Government in the d?fendrait the late , since the governments ressuscitent all the issues important , they are before .
bluntly simply the the rule 874 the the rule 875 , the moon . the following :
the least , the House . the synthetic the in the fact , a committee . " to report of the evidence upon before a committee such the Canadian a session adequate , except the form of appendice .
the words performatifs here are the " in the fact , the
otherwise , the in the case of the senator Milne , the chairmanship the committee and the not m?nage not the efforts , the government has public , moves the evidence before made to the committee and the power speed the Senate . the committee .
the senator Milne and the members of the committee would be the Canadian and evidence for the session . the .
he is also enjoy the , in general , a committee can always to the use of documents and the Senate . a place Committee , even its own business and evidence .
in the case , this , the committee , the business legal to do the Canadian and evidence heard .
the following I , the motion that he has the intent of the the authority to the Senate , pursuant to the the moon clear Beauchesne .
the question that he is question is the following : the authority to do what ?
as the Senate . the ever been the report of the committee on or the one or the other . the bills of the , he not the no chance of the study of these two - the bill .
the result , we do we not need , the the years of the present session , the one of the Committee of the Senate to send the evidence to the committee , because of the not the , not in his possession , he not be the chamber .
this is it is , the motion that the Senate is a hardships the right and properly form the the committee for the authority , when he will be new bill to the , the review of evidence that he has received the the subject of the other bill to the .
this is it is , the motion of order to the Senate , a hardships , requesting the the committee , to the evidence in his thorough , and the the the Senate refer to the documents that he not the not in his possession .
honourable senators , he is a that the two - the bill different , and the bill to the C - 7 deserves the be considered the way deliberate and satisfaction .
the bill to the C - 7 , the report of new to the House of the House and examined the entire steamship .
in substance , the Commons . issued a person to Authorize the the review quickly and the the feasibility , three lectures .
the result , if the senator Milne and the committee , the the senator Fraser wish to the bill to the C - 7 with the Canadian expeditiously adapt , he need , he I would , the the follow the Canadian Rules .
the right to the make no . not the authority to the Senate . chamber . the evidence that he not the not , but the authority to the committee , to the evidence in his thorough .
i hope that I have been clear , if I would welcome to me tell the length .
when the senator Oliver , the this motion , with the consent unanimous , I am I immediately and I , I asked to the the employee of a large , the committee .
he not had the - be not read the article the the Rules , but I believe that the motion was moved under the the rule 58 ( 1 ) .
in response to my question , he has said that he not to ascertain not the one large , the committee .
the rule 58 ( 1 ) f ) , before the following :
municipal instructions to a committee .
the result , the motion is essentially a large , the committee .
i had set of the length of the motion of the senator Oliver tomorrow and move a subamendment that he would have easy to make , the knowledge , instead of " to out of the " into the .
but it is now . " the notional .
he we do , in the the part Maritimer and op?rante the the Parliament of the Canada , the attention to the Canadian Rules exactly the introduction of the motions .
we are sometimes a little negligent , although the word that the very .
we work . the things that we could be better . there oversee a . small effort .
the purpose of the opinion of Motion to the senator Fraser is essentially the courts the committee , the question . subject of the fair and get to the the committee can give the the bill to the the kind of the and the attention that he deserves .
honourable senators , I would probably more . the I had whereas the near to address these issues , but I do agree that belief the opportunity to the make today , the
in the , the committee is open the study of evidence of all the other witnesses .
the only to the the not be to the the motion . the motion banned by the comment 875 ; it is the make the Canadian and evidence upon retained except the form of appendice .
the committee has the powers which he has need .
this was just a prerequisite Supplementary .
the Hon. the Speaker :
if no other honourable senator . " to the honourable , I am prepared to the question to the
the Canadian the Speaker
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when this issue . was raised the first time , I have consulted the primacy the the Senate .
i will now try to present my explanation in a person sense .
however , if the " consult the Debates of the Senate . the 3 November , the the the motion that when the senator Oliver , moved the motion is clear :
... with the leave of the Senate and nonobstantl' ) 58 ( 1 ) f ) -
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the motion of the senator Oliver was a valid because the Canadian leave was the leave .
second , I wish him the honourable senators , the part III the the Rules and the Senate , the extent to Interpr?tation the and the rules said :
( 1 ) In all the case , investments , the Rules , the Senate or his committee looking , with the adaptations to the the homeland , lightweight , formalit?s and procedures of the one or the other . the Houses of the Parliament of the Canada .
he is clear that our rules , our automotive and our free the above the the literature the reference such as the Bourinot or the precincts .
we consultons the first , Standing , then we consider our automotive and our questions .
the Honourable Senator Kinsella , explained in detail two of our automotive and precedents .
in the case of the motion introduced in early today , by the Honourable Senator Stewart , the Order of Reference is clear :
that the documents received and the evidence heard and the work accomplished by the Committee on the Canadian and business foreign to the years of the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament be removed the the Committee ;
in addition , the senator Oliver , as the the indicated the senator Kinsella , the said , new the 3 November , the Canadian page 90 the the Debates of the Senate , the that the summer . " a place to the
he we refer to the Journals of the Senate . the 2,500 April 1998 , page 584 , the " quelque that the documents received and the evidence heard the the subject of the bills of the S - 10 and S - 12 , the removal the the committee for the study of the bill to the S - 14 .
i can find the other speakers if the honourable senator who .
however , such is , the question , the Canadian practice usual the the Senate .
the Heat the this way to the not . compelled the witnesses to come forward a second time , the same topic and the not . the " initially the Canadian research a second time , a question , the previous was addressed by a committee on the the Senate .
this is the the the main the practice observed in the past and the motion , the it has shifted .
the senator Cools we , removal the the precincts .
as I , I have noted , our accustomed the above the the precincts .
however , the so you requesting the comment 874 the the precincts , he is the said that the committee to the make the " the House . "
the my opinion , it is virtually not , then , the the Senate endorse a place practice because the the not there has nothing to ever .
he not . not the the so that the the not been made , the not be the one another practice .
our practice was achieved .
i thought that we can look the motion of the senator Oliver .
you , you that the question , tabled the the name of the senator Cools ?
the senator Cools :
yes .
the Hon. the Speaker :
it stick . " the name of the senator Cools .
( the question still placed on the name of the senator Cools . )
the Conference on the equality and the participation of the women in the life public
inquiry
the Honourable Lorna Milne , with the opinion , given November 99 :
that it call the attention of the Senate on the participation the the 70e anniversary of the case , one of the the part of the Conference on the equality and the participation of the women in the life public , the Canada and the the U - Parliamentary the the motion held in London , in England , the 21 and 22 October .
this series of convincing the summer hosted by Debra Davis and the motion held in the London the the Canada , the Trafalgar Square , for celebrate the 70e anniversary of the judgment of the committee judicial the the Council Office British recognizing that the women are the the people in the .
as no Senator Canadian . was the Allan the this conference or even further , his meeting , I have agreement that I devais , the .
i am I made to London - to my own expense , I - I add , represent the parliamentary Professional the the Canada , the conference .
the conference was divided the number committee , the , the I will highlight , the few .
dismissal Ruth , the the great - Polish the summer a lawyer , the group of the five women Carlos , the open the conference the Thursday 21 October and we , preferring a comment down different the the history of the case , one of the
in 1929 , the government cast the fighting MacDonald just the be elected in Britain , Britain .
the membership of the committee judicial the the Council Office the difference , and the time was perfect to a moment to the
the judges the said , in their decision , the Canadian Constitution was as a tree alive and that it was a continuing with the time .
however , the the Canada , despite the battle that it was able , Jane marry was a conservatrice the the West and the first opening the the Senate was in Ontario .
when the very hon. R . B . Bennett , a Progressive - Conservative , is much the Minister , it has created a diplomatic in the West , but Bennett the vehemence that he did Prime a Catholic the the last Senator the be appointed was a protestant .
i believe that is not the the one sorry to the not dissimilar Faries .
the conf?renci?re next , the Frances Wright , the Calgary .
it is chairman of Senior general , the Famous Five Honorary .
it has the - the Whole the fund to the with the assistance generous the five Canadians , the one seat with us to the Senate , nomm?ment the senator Poy , the not . not here in the time .
it was among the generous donatrices the people in sufficient to the symbol of this wonderful onto the Calgary .
the unveiling the summer d?voil?e the 18 October , the the opportunity to the fiftieth anniversary of the decision of the Council Office .
the year next , a place onto will d?voil?e the Canadian Hill the the Parliament , the close to this , and the Victoria the the East and the part of the Victoria the the Centre the motion located the Senate .
the week , the I am I arr?t?e words , Calgary , the tremendous the Canadian meeting general Annual the the Liberal Party of the Canada , the the motion held in Edmonton , in Alberta .
the Calgary , I have been precluded . new memorial performance .
i met Kaelan a time , the Chair of Faries , a woman , chemisier is exit the armed the one dining mate .
he is a the Antigonish Wright , the surveillait the implementation .
this is a woman the one subject intellect and very dou?e .
it has spoken of the situation . the women professional , Britain , Britain and the concerns the opinion . frankly .
some of the statistics public that it has quotations 18.7 that the women are conspicuously the Canadian high court of justice . Britain , Britain and that they are very little many of evidence of the Canadian youths the Canadian Queen , and that the greatest of the fact that per cent of the lawyers enrolled the the Chambre the the country are the the women .
it has said :
you knew all the history of Allerednic -
the Church wife , princesse and the rapid the souillon .
this is apparently the reality fact , and the women similarities .
the second group of discussion was to turn to Ban the p?riph?rie the the centre :
the suggested the Hon. the the women in the
he was led by Sandra Anstey , Chair of Anstey Associates , the Toronto .
it has pointed that the United Nations had finished the Canada , the Prime rank in the world . the the concerns of equality of the women .
the baronne Crawley , Chair of the board national the the women in Britain , Britain , Chris the this day .
it has said :
the Canada has the many shown the seaway , " , in pr?nant courageusement the equality of the sexes .
the the U - Parliamentary , the last government cast the fact elected , women in the House of the House , but they represent the least , 20 per - and members .
however , in the new Parliament Scotians , the the 139 members , 48 are the the women .
in England , 40 per - and students in the are now , the women , but the Foreign senior the Canadian profession of the right and the Canadian Bar are a bastion the men , and they have a cancer huge the Canadian life , the U Kingdom
the board of the equality of the opportunity . 25 years , Britain , Britain .
he is a the one board legislative independent , the fact 15 commissioners with their office . London and the Manchester .
they have the power to be the the investigation official , but not the people . the years of the years .
Ms Barshevkin the issue of real the Government challenge of the human :
the citizenship the the women in a perspective contemporary the .
it has maintained that many of changes r?gressifs disasters been the case , one of the deep influencing the Canadian Position and the rights of the women , favoris?es .
the leaders current the Canadian , third civil the " and the - United , the the Canada and the Great - Britain not have not yet define the CBC the damage .
it is the the intervention and a great the Canadian the discussion the people has been brought the Canadian Charter Canadian of the rights and Freedoms and the the fact that the women similarities would be the their country . strategic the one charter such .
Susan Captain , conseill?re key to equality of the sexes the the Department federal - the Justice , the indicated that the Charter Canadian is absorbed the the rights actions of groups and the Canadian individuals and that is the only the many amended the right Canadian and the jurisprudence Canadian .
it does not the the the is still the one culture and the one faith . masculins , the " the public . the Department of the Justice and certainly the the public . the Department of the Finance , the the Canada .
the Opposition , Lucy Makinson , conseill?re the political , the Treasury the Queen Majesty , the matrimonial that the great progress the recent was made to the the motion of the " and concerns of the women in the public . the Department .
however , the Treasury not the ever not really affordably the Hon. the the issues f?minines , then , 45 per - and women similarities work , the time jobs and that the salaries to the the women . the 80 per Churchill the one of the men to a job of equal value .
in the debate , the follow , Manitoba Brown , the Canadian British - British , the motion now chairman of the Centre international MATCH , the reference to the Charter is a lame the two tranchants and that he is the Canadian and the the Canadian and men the materials , with their oil and contacts senior , the the background of women .
it has the " out that the fact , he is the person - be the the Superior political f?minines the Canadian television British the the time at the but that the editors political are still , masculins .
Trima McQueen , the chairman of Civilization Executive the CTV , the said that the media . " . This not .
it has quoted some new recent the the Canada .
the Canadian first , the new Gouverneure general , the Canada , Chairwoman Clarkson , the summer immediately attaqu?e in the media , the subject of the pr?tendues shortcomings , as the mother , particularly by the the editors f?minines .
the most , the Court Supreme the announcement that the aboriginal people inshore to the paying the first time .
when the system " the Canadian Corporation CBC - Canada has used the term neutre the fishers the , it has raised a terrific backlash a group of women . caveats the Canadian fish .
when the Court Supreme the announcement that the government , was the the parameters f?minines the Canadian r?troactivit? to a job of equal value , the U.S. Financial the matrimonial that the Court Supreme was the the hands of f?ministes drastic .
Yvonne Roberts , a journalist pigiste , detailed :
the media similarities are a officine the the power , the men , the power and the women the rel?gu?es in the officines !
the women who cases and the regular then , Nobel their children or the lead to a place career , generally attacked , because they not have not ready to the make the " the music the .
the situation . the women in Britain , Britain for the the motion of the coverage in the media and their involvement the the environment . , the fact terrible .
during the Chair entitled : " - women and the right :
promoting the the rights of the wife , the courts , the Carissima Mathen , Director of the legal the LEAF , the subject of the Faire to our voice , the the experience Canadian , the Canadian Human the the equality the duration now been 20 years , under the Canadian Charter .
it has pointed that the the the the judges . the not elected to the public . the system of the British , they can the WTO the be impopulaires the the plan policy and the matter of the judges politically impopulaires , but regardless Well .
Anuja Dhir , Heather the London , the subject of the business recent the most troublantes the be victimized the Great - Britain .
first , the rape matrimonial the summer legal , Britain , Britain for 400 years , the one generated verdict the in 1678 .
in 1991 , the verdict the by a court of Appeal the infirm? the fact that a job the plaid? contempt for rape marital the one court of making Churchill .
the wife , then interjet? call the Canadian the House of the Lords , a little as the fact , the five women Carlos .
a group of the Lords legal the not asking that the the men . When the call and pace that the the idea that the one woman was the Canadian ownership of the husband not to interprovincial the and was blessante to the women in the
it is recovered the 1991 .
it has spoken of the mariages forced with great the emotion because the the motion of court widespread the the public . the home culture south - Asian .
the Court Supreme was reached and the qualified the behaviour of kidnapping and the act criminal .
the third example , Dr. Dhir the levy is the Canadian and women battues the people killed their joint corner .
the the the marvelling is now , the Canada . part of Defence unfortunate , the invocation the Canadian legitimate Defence or the Canadian provocation as a the Defence require the " the U - Parliamentary that he is that response immediate to the that the unfortunate .
the marvelling the Canadian women battue not there is not found .
it has strongly the point that the the equality . means that a single equal but if the " a result such a .
the result is the only part of the floor of the real equality .
during the part next , the first oratrice the summer the very hon. baronne Jay the Paddington , 1899 Guard the the Sceau Priv? , the Canadian the House of the Lords and Minister of the Condition the Canadian women .
it has coalition the list of the government legislation that the government Blair the resolutions recently , there was the months , this a credit to tax to children who occasion , the women .
a system national the salaries minimum the summer adopted .
you , buildings the ?
this is the first time that he is the in Britain , Britain a pay minimum and the extent to the traduite to claim million . women by a continuing the treatment .
the Honourable Hedy Frey , Secretary of the " the situation . the wife , the then the Canadian speak and the fact honour to the Canada .
it has gained the new and uncoordinated Canadian and the " what the provinces , are navy the the years of the past years .
it has spoken with eloquence of our Act , the equity in the Canadian job and the " the analysis based on the equality man - wife , the demands now , the Canadian .
it has indicated that the idea of a political , Human the Canadian ownership of the sexes the date was abandoned .
we mesurons now , equal in the Canadian and results of the Canada and the in the Canadian a required process of equality .
the only the conference , the very enlightening , but it has represented to the Canada . , anyone in the Canadian relations public .
in the , the press British we , while in a single item , the space that it is the in the work done any of the .
this section was the implementation of Yvonne Roberts and the intitulait : " Northern rights , the
the week following the conference , it has r?cidiv? with a section . , long , entitled : " Under the blaze of Northern rights , the the exception the virtues of the record realized by the Canada .
cooperative , it has been a conference is magnificent , and I am proud of the have attended .
the Hon. the Speaker :
if no - to the means speak , the debate on this inquiry will raise as complete .
the Evolution and the marketing
inquiry
the Honourable rald - A .
Beaudoin , with the opinion , Tuesday 2 November 99 :
the honourable senators , I have had the privilege , in October the , the part of the Asia - and f?d?rations the the motion of the the Mont - Tremblant and the the Whole , the 550 from the experts .
this conference touchait four principles themes : the Evolution , the citizenship and the diversity social ; the Evolution economic and social ; and liability Intergovernmental in the f?d?rations ; and political Social and the Evolution .
the Canadian 30 groups of the people were constitu?s to deal of a great many of learning , the the share of the powers , the marketing , the relationship Intergovernmental and the citizenship .
the two hire , Kenneth Rae and Henning Voshereau , the fact , the remarkable and the PC the Canadian a plenary the the one of the new put the the Evolution .
the Asia - and f?d?rations will be existence permanent .
the next colloquium will be in Switzerland in both years .
the government ' s money . amount varying 500 per $ to the meeting of the Asia - and f?d?rations .
the my opinion , the forum was his right to be .
i have had the right fortune the turn a table round the the Evolution and the marketing and the motion of the subject that I wish to the " few words .
the " era modern , the Canada is the one of the most bitter f?d?rations ; it is the third , after the United - United , in 1789 , and the Swiss , in 1848 .
our Constitution . , sometime .
the history we Laws that we have the the phases the centralisation and the d?centralisation .
we are now in a result of d?centralisation .
the Canadian , the work as the time and the energy that the selfless the the Year of a federalism balanced .
the widespread , in the world , a public growing to the Evolution .
as the fact out of professeurRonald Watts , the vice a acteur linked to the Asia - and f?d?rations :
he is the signatures - five years , he not there was the the world that a single The and two centres of Research the the Evolution .
he is today , several newspapers , and the Association internationale the the locations the students , the Evolution , the the meeting each year , the lines centres and instituts dans15 country over the the five continents .
he is a the the committee on some accessible the country Constitution and the the CEO the the consequences that the marketing the have the
in the Canadian taxation , the Canada has passed the system dualiste .
in many countries , the signing the one treaty doubt the bill to the country .
he is the most , the the Canada , some of the in politics the treaty the the summer signed .
the Canadian outlines , the motion of authority federal , warning the treaty .
the end of inclusion a treaty , he is " the share of the skills legislation . the federal and the provinces .
the in the announcement the jurisprudence the blind , and the jurisprudence not the not survive been .
this does the skills readiness , the needs of the Canada , the my opinion , the so , the us we both systems the right private : the right Civil to the Quebec and the " started started to the the other provinces .
the the Canada , the motion of authority federal , the court extraterritorialement , the ?met the passeports and the skilled the political foreign .
the the public . the Agency the cooperation cultural and technical , the Quebec and the New - New the the same status of the investigator .
the government , the recipient in some cases , the the ministers provincial governments of the the delegations Canadian , the foreign and so , chairman of the opportunity to act to the Canadian chairman of weekly .
the 17 November 1965 , the Canada and the France , signed a response cultural franco - Canadian , habilitait the provinces , lies the the agreements directly with the France in the area of the culture .
a province can , the the trade , this agreement - the , lies the the agreements directly with the France .
if the agreement anywhere the part of the agreement , then the federal , the Inter to the private a medical .
it is the agreements France - Quebec . was signed the this way .
the Income administrative are concluded add a vital Supplementary the environment , the public . our system federal .
they not incomplete not the Constitution , but facilitent the application .
they are required in the Evolution modern .
he is the in the the Canada . agreed administrative in December 1975 of the authority federal and the provinces in the area of the rights of the human .
this agreement setting the statutory the collaboration and the Ethics the the two levels of the in the phases the application to the Canada . the rights of the human .
the Evolution modern , in the perspective of the marketing , become the most of the Canadian arguments .
the , the Kyoto the the Agreement - free trade North - American the pace the process of globalization the North .
the trade and the trade . those most of the boundaries .
he , is the in the other parts of the world , in Europe , by the .
the impact of the marketing the fact feel the all the levels : commercial , cultural and political .
the same , the diminution of the path of the United the the Universit the great battle - the NAFTA , Union European - is the most of the visible .
the state federal the whole the participation of the components to the process of globalization . in ensuring the cohesion the the political foreign .
the the Canada , the opinion spontan?ment the the Agence the Canadian Francophonie .
he could simpler the other areas .
as the Catholic the professor Richard Simeon the the Asia - and f?d?rations the the Mont - Tremblant :
what the Senate . , the Canadian , the the motion clear that the Canadian globalization , the Evolution not committees . the jury the Canadian border : the forces numerous the Canadian and Forestry powerful the the relationship to the level national , and the character federal - the country . inevitably projet? the Canadian scene international .
in conclusion , I quote , citations of the introduction of the professor Earl H . Fry the the Asia - and f?d?rations , the the motion of the the Mont - Tremblant the October 1998 :
he is clear that he will increase the consultation and the collaboration of the governments , the plans federal want to the the many opportunities the their are currently and reduce the the floor the impact separate the Canadian globalization .
the the direction of the new century , he is the very strong well , the trend the Canadian globalization the accentue , and that the Judicial of the economies local , Finance and international the tensions .
the model Canadian is the - be a good the Canadian students to the f?d?rations d?sireuses the end of up to the peaufiner the institutions and procedures Intergovernmental to the the U the Canadian globalization the the 21 century .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
if no other honourable senator . I take the honourable , the debate on this inquiry will get .
the situation . the aboriginal and their future
inquiry - Adjourned the the debate
the Honourable Aur?lien Gill , with the opinion lejeudi 4 November 99 :
that he call the attention of the Senate on the situation . the aboriginal to the us to the make the point and the thought the the government acted to the future .
i do you surprendrais not only the so I would caucus the Canadian my enthusiasm and the question faith .
since a year , I Appointments , I hear , I embassy .
he is time now , to the honourable .
my identity and I cannot witnessing the my principles and the my convictions .
when I conclude , considering , I note how was difficult , during my time , and , the fight for the simple recognition of the the I am .
i have been the this battle , the the struggle , the the r?veil and , the the long come , I have often the my principles to the advisory .
i consider as a duty of the use of my position to the Senate to the best express the " what I believe and the basis I have lived the life , was the mine .
the honourable the one message , he is the " and the state , with the most of state and the wisdom .
the honourable is often . the the the us , the
you see that I rise my role in the serious and I , take the so and also have the the " will the Canadian to me express publicly .
the Senate is exactly the place to opt these words serious that we attended the us , the the words , we relate all the the people of the National .
the Prime Minister of the Canada , Mr. Jean Chr , d?montrait the opening of mind , I suppose the the Senate .
the question of the First Nations is the one of the to the Canada .
he , will the Hon. future .
we , let too often as a degrading , a point of the small cauchemars recurring the us we happen the time , the forgotten .
however , the heart of the question . is that rarely issue .
this is in the air of the time that the subject of the new millennium the the opening the us .
the century century . will not been worthwhile the the aboriginal the the country .
the century century , the assistance and trickle .
it is therefore 200 years , our First are the doctor - pain of the history .
we have been d?pouill?s the our identit?s .
our forests relationship spoli?es .
the treaty . the not been relentlessly , the us . the in tutelage .
we f?mes overlooked in the Universe north of the Foundation , the the disability , criterion the one bill inique , prisoners of the reserves Indian , respectfully the all the pressure the the assimilation .
we , we expect that the next century , finally , the Canadian redress , the the Farm and the Canadian rebirth ?
having been the Act , cause of these struggles , I believe the well . " ordinary .
in the the former Chief of the First montagnaises and the the Attikameks , the the CHST the former Chief of my community of Mashteuiatsh , the IAFSP - Bleue , I am the most of law , we miss now , time .
he is the emergency the Canadian reality .
if someone change basic not . not raise soon in our surveys policy , I have the conviction that the things tourneront , the
the the moment , we greatest of the worries the Canadian Room , in the hope that each the r?sorbe .
since signing years , he , is the "
Kanesatake , Ipperwash , Gustafsen Cold and Burnt Church .
he is happy to any . the truly d?rap? .
each would have we plonger in the the drames . the evolving that is that we have known to the the Order .
i do I might silent the Canadian and concerns of a if the importance , this , the silent is grief .
the course , since 40 years , we have all the Canadian the path .
we have the balance a point that the " no could imagine when I was kidnapped man .
the human not degenerated the fact that we are the first people of the country .
we greatest the this land , today , called Canada , since the the mill?naires .
the Constitution Canadian testimony of our right .
however , if our right is stated in the document founder of the nation , the content of the right to a mystery the the most of several .
jadis , in a history , not . not be taking , our ancestors the positive the new arrivants and they are the drafting .
the first part of the history of our relations in the one of partnership .
this is the the most later , the mood the the guest the difference .
yes , he would r??crire the history .
we have a great the " that history , but this , we , as ni?e , as was aired our commitment to our forests , as relationship ni?es our contributions to the floor , the Canadian life and the Canadian philosophical .
he would none of the university , the Canadian occurred , in a word of travelling to the inability .
Sachons that the concept of the two valley fondatrices or aboriginal Africans we , the very well , the us to the First Nations .
the Canada has bel and the one chairman of Foundation when he is a the building the regions national .
how scaffold what the the Senate on a knowledge oversight , the one such misunderstanding ?
we have been and we are still .
we have been valuable in the Oklahoma , in the trade , in the institution . the repository , in the welfare , in the amiti?s , in the construction of the country .
we have been and we are still , we are Montagnais Innus , we are shacks , the Wendat , the Ojibways - Anishinabes , the Blackfoot - Siksika , the Assiniboines , the Lilioets , the Tsequoitin , the Haidas or the Gitchwin .
we must see that the all the efforts , despite the years , the ?coulent , the great majority of the Canadian coded the importance and the important , the the concerns of First Nations .
the last commission Royal the the subject , the board Erasmus - Dussault , the fact , the more , and it . was a shocking dramatique : " , the Canadian coded , the importance and the ignorance the Canadian and consequences political .
i say that it dramatically the Canadian political partisanship , the us the cumulative all , the ignorance casts the prejudice and the prejudice exasp?rent .
is the tasks that the " cathedral .
the existence and the persistance the the speech , the year 2000 future for all the Canadian a failure unhappy .
the First Nations . relationship to participate not in the drafting , the governing and the application of the Act , the Indian .
but who knows , the Canada . existence the Canadian this bill , the in what the nature , the person in fractures the tragic scope , the history consequential ?
the status of Indian Canadian , is a the subamendment , citizenship .
the bill proceeding the concept of scholarly .
this long tutelage we , infantilis?s and the history . the evidence that we have the lost , there was our dignity .
the Act , the Indian , the the extensive and seconded , there has the Hon. the General .
it has created , the one time , 125 years , a situation Spector , a world north , the world complex the the reserves Indian , the Foundation eliminates , the Universe closed the the Foreign Indian .
the Canadian , the , the Canadian , ?duqu?s the particular , not know that the treaty .
they know , the the no treaty . the summer did the the state Canadian and the other provincial .
that the " point of misunderstandings , the the " it took the all the contingences that the " Only , it is proper not to the results .
we have been flou?s in all the dimensions of our identity , in all the recoins the our rights and the fundamental .
but it remains a secret , touch .
he need to read and the suggested our Superior and our tutelage the most distinguished to enable , on the Order , how the ignorance the Canadian and damage .
the acceptance the easily the situation . the Timor oriental that the the pourrit the the public . our own country .
the Canada . the ever not the Hon. the Canadian conscience in the the the policy , the First Nations .
he is the in inequity the the respect to those who relationship Laurier the the Sauvages , then , the Indian , then , the Am?rindiens , then , the aboriginal , then be no record , what sort .
this great inequity perdure the the public . the corporation Canadian , DFO not . the inspectors .
no . is possible or not be possible without the this br?che conviction that the r?par?e , the the justice , the .
i said that , during my time , and , we have the Canadian the path .
unfortunately , the recognition of our rights , play in our d?faveur .
the content of these rights remain a mystery , it is the
this assessment , exasp?re the Canadian a .
in the the Aboriginal , we are generated as the the threat .
our destiny is much legal .
we are coinc?s of the corridor ?troit , for the not say abstrait , the the right , and the fact waiting , for the not say tordue , the the prejudice the the ground of the true life .
this is the history of the First Nations , the one we march the the the other we refuse .
a day , the other , he will the out .
the First Nations virulent the the self , the Canadian Tobacco and the Canadian dignity .
the in dealing , defines , he is watching the tutelage vicious the Canadian tutelage and the hell the Canadian Foundation .
the Foreign Indian diseases . Six the the Canadian and the results will negative .
he is necessary and none of phrase to the First Nations , the in the loss Canadian , a place , the economic and geographic .
we d?fendons our rights , we d?fendons our identity , we are battons to our future . the public . the nation Canadian .
i am Senator and I am aboriginal .
i do I do have shame the my country .
i have worked the question of the Canadian restoration of our rights , because we have the right to be the Canadian be proud to the the Dene , in the the Inuit , in the the Sarcees or M .
a great foss? , the vacancy , but it is the bitter .
in the years , from the " from the this institution , is the Senate , I hear , I humble contribution to the value of the honourable and the Canadian wisdom .
i thinkers the Canadian wisdom .
in this spirit , I will use the all the opinion and advice that he I will be the information in the levels of the product and the communication , because he is essential that the message what the
we must all work , the opening of the spirit .
in my intervention next , I am proposing the back to you with more of information .
i am proposing the part fully the the discussions the the committee Standing the the Aboriginal Peoples .
i am determined , the basis of my position to the Senate and the Canadian the Canadian my means , the first to the implementation for industrial the debate in a sense positive .
we are we all of higher the level of the debate and the action the most pressing is the frigate the public Canadian of the issues enemies .
he is contemplated all the the effects devastating the Canadian misinformation , the the red quick , the the unfounded infertile .
if we do r?ussissons not to do this debate on the Senate , the then there r?ussira ?
despite the the ignorance ambiante the g?n?re as the distortions , despite the fact that many felt the Canadian the " from the one parcelle the information , he remains that the situation . the aboriginal is dramatique .
you say , the Algonquins the the recruit , the the Ojibways the the west of the Ontario , the the Ouje the the west of the despair of James , the the Tuchones the the Yukon . , will the the best in the best of the mondes .
you visit the reserves Indian the the year 2000 , you thumb that he not there has not be the be cynic or sarcastique .
section not . not a humanitarian the word , the not have not the the Province of the spirit .
the the same as the Canadian poverty , the question of the First Nations is that the I appellerais a contingency national .
we must be refurbishing in our responsibilities .
he is necessary to invent the the international national a structure , the to the moment , not there is the
he is going to further , the inadequate the right .
the aboriginal be hand , and this , the their future .
the the the challenge is colossal , not be the the not finally fair that the us to the opportunity to the challenges ?
in conclusion , I would say that the case will the way .
if the Canada . in the the way of endorsements this matter , the Canada . r?soudra not in the the nation .
he is certainly drama the emergency but it will also we expand , up and help to the repository economic and cultural the the country .
" to indianit? the not to facilitating not to the moccasins , the Canadian dance and the the traditions .
the Canada . tomorrow will also the Canadian and timing Nations .
it is the survived the one of infamous history .
we take our the , we , reprenons , we must identify the Premiers the former partnerships .
he not there has not to qualify the wheel .
how the brain , the intelligences , the boards , the consultation , the committee special , the research . will be ?
during the 50 years in the I believe that the first , the said .
the " create , the severity excursions the process historic the us will simpler collectively and dignement .
the First Nations be the managing .
the process is irr?versible .
the virtues of the eventual , he is the the land and the the resources , he we must be a " we in the country .
he we must avertir , opening the spirit , help to the implementation of the Canadian . the not there is still , promoting the creative , the innovation policy , the back to the responsibility , the the self and the Canadian dignity .
i wish to the the the Canada . turn , I do the not to the the the the d?grade .
the First Nations be the deal of the - the with a treasury the not . not storm , with the the rights affirm?s , with the the resources , with a vote in the business Finance .
we have a coastal huge the morale .
he is impossible that the us refuses the right real the make us , the the the human not be to the country , the
( the Canadian motion of the senator Watt , the debate is adjourned . )
business Social , Science and Technology
leave to the committee , sitting , the time that the Senate
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , as we done today , a little more than that we do the work usually the 1998 , if the Senate . hear , notwithstanding the rule 58 ( 1 ) , " the the Rules , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , though the Senate for the the Senate seat today , and that the application of the rule 95 ( 4 ) be suspended in this regard .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is the " the agreement , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
transport and Communications
leave to the committee , sitting , the time that the Senate
the Honourable Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the article 95 ( 4 ) the the Rules , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian and Communications and the the communication the power to sit during the Chair of the Senate . today , the and that the application duparagraphe 95 ( 4 ) the the Rules the sitting , this regard .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the leave is the it leave ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Transportation of specifications the the Environment to the children
the Canadian the motion of predatory
the Honourable Mira Spivak , pursuant to the moved 2 November 99 , moved :
that the Senate urge the government to tough a board of specifications the the Environment to the children , the one board entirely responsible for advocating the protection of the children , the risk environmental .
the honourable the people served in the committee on the bill to the C - 32 and the people , the representatives of the Institute Canadian of the health upon the the institution . the board are a great the Canadian my reaching .
the first , these reasons , and the motion would asset , is that we have angry need to the board of specifications the the Environment to the children .
the children are more optimistic by the polluants environmental .
the the committee , the us . Gustafson why , in terms scientific , and the worth the only to the subsequent , the motion of key to the the rest .
during the six first month of the life , a b?b? ing?re seven time , the water by kilogramme the negative that a adulthood .
a child of a " five years mange three to four times . the foods , by kilogramme the negative , the one adulthood .
a b?b? endormi done a weighted the air two , the important that the the fact , adult the the repos .
the that means that the water , the air or the foods pollu?s the one impact . the dismantling the one parent that the honourable .
this effect leave time , the s?quelles to the Canadian life and the motion time irr?versible .
when the b?b? the very , in the body of the mother , or when he is nursed the the public and that the body of the mother is pollu? , a low requirements of botulinum delivered to the bad at the tools the NHL , the surdit? , a crisis c?r?brale or a charge spark .
the the years of the past decades , the scientific the same the plight in the part of the students cooperation with the children presentations the the plomb or the the Non had consumed the the fish pollu? the the wastes from the the Great Lakes or more representations to children Born in the the communities victims of childhood the the m?thylmercure .
this month , this , the Centre Centre Institutes The Environment and Justice of the United - United the article a significant important to new information on the effects of a pollutants urgently Toxic , the dioxine .
the 5.2 the most encroachment the the report , the motion that the dioxine numerous definition in the foods enough to entraver the growth and the development of the children .
the loons hach? contains order 1.5 parties of dioxine by trillion , the ones persill? milligrams parties and a pilon the chicken or a morceau the aiglefin 0,03 parties , automobiles .
the nourrissons absorbent each day , fed the dioxine . the high that the chronic .
the reason , the motion that the dioxine the myth in the milk maternel .
the matters education , the babies nourris the the public , the Canada absorbent 26 parties , automobiles the dioxine , the $ 30 per - the the the babies the the United - United , the Canadian the little of the the absorbent the babies the Russian and the Canadian eight times . the absorbent the babies the Philippines .
i do the knowledge not the reason .
what are precise the effects of the dioxine the the children ?
the the investigator a link between the exposure to the dioxine before the birth and a more low quotient love , a model renferm? or d?pressif , the hyperactivit? , and a system immunitaire the low .
the dioxine the one of so powerful that the the so observed that it was a the Act , per - and sexes .
the report contains the the workplace the recommendations for prevention the ailments future .
he suggested , by the , the Canadian the Canadian br?ler the ordures , the main source of dioxine , the make the the accreditation intensif , the deficit the dumping and the end of the Canadian best measures to protect the the Environment .
a place suggestion , the motion of cover the br?ler the dumping medical and dangerous , the clean traps the dumping plastiques the are a place source important to dioxine , or the intrinsic the pesticides tainted the Canadian dioxine .
we have the choice .
the the children . paid sir to the us acqu?rions the knowledge making lead to the prevention , but one . " that the the government how we have expertise .
this is a function the the excluded a board of specifications the the Environment to the children .
he d?finirait the present bloc the the knowledge and collaborerait with the other departments and agencies of the government to the " take the Canadian . knowledge of the children in the development of the regulations .
the the board , the rate of pollution tol?rables continue presumably the be accomplished in the purpose of protecting the men adults specimens , and the the women and the children .
however , the not . , the one of the the the relevant the implementation of the Canadian the board .
we have also need to the board to lead the research on the the issues troublantes concerning we do we not yet found the good answers .
why the number of the children asthmatiques the the quadrupl? been some decades ?
a board of specifications the the Environment to the children the use the kind of research , as may the make the locations the awards to the well - be the the children .
he is the most of two years and shocking , the government has promised to Recommendation 20 million . $ the five years , the research on the health of the children who would instituted by the new centres of excellence .
a Hamani the months , from the but not only the summer . .
i hope that the government giving the implementation of up to the locations and the tighten the Canadian and recommendations included in the speech , the Throne .
this is the only the us granted , the Canadian health of the children when we envisageons the the Estimates , the the regulations or a political .
we do know , not what Contents Policing the odd usually in our reacts the games , our garderies and our schools .
we do we not the lines guidelines to the deficit the exposure of the children , the the dumping Policing that the people switch the most clear the their time .
he is the Canadian and served the the responsibilities a board of specifications the the Environment to the children .
second , we should support this motion to do the so that our country respect to enriching that he has made in initiating the statement of 1998 , the leaders of the G - 8 , the Act , health of the children and the Environment and the reluctant the Convention of 1991 respecting the the rights of the child .
the respect to enriching , he is a leadership policy , a leadership as the the us we were witnesses to the United - United . " in close to the same time when our leaders promettaient the people constituents all kinds of the to the children , the chairman Clinton . ordered to all the organizations federal - whether the way priority the risk for the safety and the emphasis environmental evidence of the Canadian and effect Property the the children and the Constitution the political , the program , the activities and the standards , because the correct this imbalance .
the following , laU.S. Environmental whalers Agency the fund the board of specifications the the Environment to the children to the the follow the Canadian the Canadian the chairman , and the board . announced the implementation of the Canadian a program , 1995 - a program national to the protection of health of the children , the risk environmental .
the not know that clear what the Canadian and changes to be termed the the board and the the program developed , the by the EPA .
this is the " know however , the motion that laU.S. Grains Quality whalers occurrences require the Canadian reassessment of the levels of forbearance the close to 10 per pesticides , the Canadian new standard atmosph?rique related to the ozone should be lower each year by a year , the Canadian span pulmonaires the least , the children and that the EPA the " the staff of the in suggesting the new , Born , the children and the women repatriated when it makes the standards provisions the the water terrifying .
if the however , we are concentrons the the most vulnerable of the us , the knowledge of children , growth , we will all of stabilization opportunity to be protected .
i know that the board proposed the Iraqi the enthusiasm of the honourable the in the when he , the summer . " the committee .
i hope do that the public . the Canadian of them . the motion . d?menti and that these senators may the the debate and convaincront their colleagues , support this motion .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable - the " and senators , the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate . adjourned . p.m. at tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 9
the Thursday 18 November 99
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the dumping
the Senate . the Senate
the Honourable John B . Stewart
tributes to the opportunity to the beginning to the retirement
Maxwell Tabled '
the Day national the the child
Mr. . Irwin Cotler
congratulations to the opportunity to the election as member of the constituency of Mont - Royal
business routine
banks and Commerce
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
post post
tabling of the Prime report of the committee Special
the adjournment
the Act , the outcome
bill to the Second - First Reading
business Social , Science and Technology
notice of Motion During the committee to allow the heading Ministerial
notice of Motion During the committee to withhold the the services
notice of Motion During the committee to examine the facts new the the Euthanasia and the assistance to the suicide
banks and Commerce
notice of Motion During the committee to study of the Canadian the system fiscal domestique and international
privileges , Standing and Orders
leave to the committee , sitting , the time that the Senate
official languages
leave to the committee Joint Committee of sitting , the time that the Senate
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the business foreign
the Sudan - Government participation of the corporation Talisman EnergyInc. - Government Response the the criticism of the community international
the Sudan - Government participation of the corporation Talisman EnergyInc. - Government Policy the the government on the Opposition of the plateforme the Canadian Transportation human and the interests of the investors
the trade internationally
the Agreement - free - free North - American - Conformity civil magazine by a society Processors , adjustments the Canadian Grain the one contract the Upholder the water , vrac - Government Position of the government
the political the the government to the Defence , the the civil class by the the companies
the Senate . the s?nat
use the the Rules
on business orders
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
second reading of Debate the the debate
the Act , the Defence down - Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques - Code offence
bill to the Second - Second Reading
referred to the committee
the Act chronic the decision of making medical
second reading of Debate the the debate
business legal and Constitutional
motion requesting the authority to use of documents and evidence collected in the the examination of the bill to the previous to the study of the bill to the present , Stands the the debate
leave to the committee , using the documents and evidence collected in the the examination of the bill to the previous to the study of the bill to the present
the Senate
the Thursday 18 November 99
the Chair . Chair . p.m. at the the Speaker , the the Chair .
prayers .
the Senate . the Senate
the Hon. the Speaker :
i am replaced the the Chair . the new Speaker pro tempore , the senator Cool - Cool , the I commend the the appointment to the position .
the Honourable John B . Stewart
tributes to the opportunity to the beginning to the retirement
the Honourable B . Alasdair Graham :
honourable senators , the first time that I have met the senator Lynch B . Stewart , he is the Canadian many years , he was already hard did in the worlds academic to have the Canadian and education . the undergraduate the the University Acadia and the the students higher the the University Columbia , New York , and that the have been successivement professor of Science political and CEO of the d?partement the Science political , the College Barnard the York Times .
John has been associated the Canadian Foundation Rockefeller to the Hon. back in Nova Scotia Nova , in 1959 , the the motion came to the d?partement the Science political the the Antigonish Francis Xavier .
about three years , later , the professor Stewart was elected member for the constituency of Antigonish - Guysborough .
he was re the 1963 and the 1965 .
these events are part of my best things political .
after the ?clatante victory remport?e by Diefenbaker , 1958 , the Association Liberal the the coincidental the Antigonish - Guysborough the announcement that we we are to the movie the one run the Senate . the skill of faith that possible .
each time that he is the one issue , some of the enqu?rait the the subject of the new professor , John Stewart , the - as they the appelaient time -St. FX .
the would rather , global and the credibility , in the , the courage to the call ?
he has made in the the the professor Stewart the very in the board in the former wing the the Universit the Canadian quoted university , by a Saturday last orageux .
the telephone breaking :
All? ?
professor Stewart ?
this Lester Pearson .
the the rest , the motion of the history !
a small precision the comments of this anecdote : the honourable the tyranny Mr. Pearson was fanatique the sports and that he followed regularly the matches the hockey Canadian diffus?s the Canadian television , the Saturday last .
the call the the professor Stewart erroneous the Stornoway and the in the one of the and the second time , the match countless the Canadian of Montreal , the Maple Leafs the Toronto .
the senator Mahovlich :
the Dnieper ?
the senator Graham :
if I am in recall , the Frank was the third barking the night , that the
during the six years , he has verified the Canadian House of the House , John Stewart the motion revealed the student the most fashion the the system Parliamentary that he I am the the Canadian know , the distinguant , as it . the fact , his life during the by the work conducted , banned essentially to the most of the Canadian , in the country and the Hon. the .
each of the years . archi - comble .
some of the previous that the the impact of a enseignant or the one teacher , usefulness to the .
he or she is known have a the limit this global .
in the case of the professor Stewart , the the Canadian reputation l?gendaire the joint the the people who picks the the scholarships the Canadian Foundation Rhodes , this global the publication was incredible .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
they have the - be done any other . " everything
the senator Graham :
fortunately , the professor Stewart is out that the time to take the labour and orienter the Prime Minister of the New - New , Frank McKenna .
the professor Stewart . , persistent the the reflections the the subject of the experience Parliamentary and Review two books , cheap and attended by a vast public the the process Parliamentary . In a the the literature precedents entitled :
Political The Moral Thought of David Hume , the professor Stewart . shown his concern Increase in the respect to the touchstone moral the Canadian political democratic .
he has the arts a smooth the the work idea of the philosopher Scotians the motion considered as a the the pioneers of the Science political :
the all the men who is distinguent through the people accomplishments crash , the place . honour to get the the legislators the transmettent a system of legislation and the the institutions to the guarantee the peace , the rest and the freedom , the generations future .
Hume the Clerk of the generations of Parliament , become , all these from the Canadian public binge and corruption the same including the Canadian the Canadian be the one good government is the comprehensive the the legislation and the the institutions unfounded the Canadian law .
the fact , the senator Lynch Stewart be full the the years of the long career Parliamentary the quintessence the Canadian the l?gislateur conduct and conscientious imagin? by David Hume many centuries before : a l?gislateur the article tireless the the motion just ; a l?gislateur the saisit the importance of the gains in the creation and the protection of our society free ; a l?gislateur , the heart of the public ; a l?gislateur the not apply not to the accident ; a man who has brought a wit listened and a energy boundless the the service of the community , the the students , the the province and the Hon. the ; a patriot thought the the ever including , as the means the old adage , the most of the urgently the r?colter the negotiation of the freedom be in pay the price .
the deep sense of the service of John Stewart the the leading to the one energy incredible in the committee , the the Senate in the committee , the fishery or in the Canadian and Commerce or more in his service important and very eloquent the chairman of the committee , the business foreign , in Work with provincial and expeditiously all the issues complex the changes to the Government respected the the Canada , the scene World .
he is the one of the Canadian a century , the idea CanadienEdward Blake the subject of the simple the Canadian partisans the the Parliament , the House .
he has said :
the privileges of the Parliament , the privileges of the people .
the rights of the Parliament , the rights of the people .
these words , honourable senators , the summer the Gallery of the life and the the time except the the senator Lynch Stewart .
the rights and the privileges of the Parliament taking their concern in the rights of our people - in the privileges , in the wisdom and the the betterment of our people .
having been the great privilege of the loss Stewart to embark and to the to the one friend and a friend for the many years , I am proud of the the one of the honour particular and the retirement up to the l?gislateur learned and inquiring , the conduct and dedicated servant of the people and that enseignant gifted the the left the Gallery ind?l?bile and linear in the history .
yes , a place . honour particular up to the senator Lynch Stewart , the will commence miss the the years of the day and the the years , in the good number of the us who are the the service of our cherished country .
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I do I do led the inquiry specific the Canadian and honourable senators , but I believe that the senator Graham and I - the ceremony the senator Stewart been more than that anyone of the " the Senate .
in the case , we are we met to the first time , there has 40 years .
it . the , I would be , a number of the one some federal , I , he .
in 1959 , the few years after the entire my graduated the the Antigonish Francis Xavier , I have led the board of the graduates to Antigonish .
this fall , that , the professeurJohn B . Stewart is income in the province and the coincidental the the motion unborn , the left the position of enseignant - the the subject of Senator Graham , the the University Columbia and his service of Ethics the Canadian Rockefeller Honorary to the deal of the part of Stamp the Science political , the Antigonish Francis Xavier .
each day , Thibaudeau by the following , the professor Stewart and I have Dene the " the same table , in the room to eat the the attitudes of the Antigonish FX .
in the the was the the time , contending the the saints , John Stewart and I were both foreign - to the one protestant , and I , a Progressive - Conservative .
fortunately for John Stewart , the was also the time when the movement oecum?nique saw the Order of the leadership of the Pope Jean XXIII .
the attitudes tendaient the labour the Canadian lively , the the friendship and the Canadian togetherness the most that they appelaient the our brothers planners the , the loss Stewart was part .
unfortunately , he has learned a little more of time to the r?v?rends Fathers to the other . sympathy to the Progressive - Tories .
what the the in the , the few opportunities to the Senate . years in the time to the the times , tendus the our debate , I have already said that I do know no other professor of the Antigonish FX or the same the fact inspired the the students as the respect and the professionalism that John Stewart .
as the senator Graham : the said , he is true that I do I do the " proprement to a student of John Stewart , but as well , and , I have been his student here , the this place .
the the opportunity , in the part of the debate , he averted my performance .
i do I have had better that a C - tens in his requiring .
the entire the , I do I tell the experience why he removes the one , high regard to the government . the students .
i think that the person be the little about some of the not blind not the pure the the pliant the the requirements of the culture adolescente , as the people of whom .
the my opinion , he is the likely that he earned their rights for the the the comply with the same for their brilliance and their judgment and because the the drawing the the criteria the awards high - not the the criteria inatteignables , but the the criteria high - and that he knew from the best of the students .
you find the the men and the the women who , the Canadian and years , later , say that the point fiftieth of their lives of student the summer the fact , the same c?toyer John Stewart .
the " the said that a number of the one of the are made it is the few weeks to the Antigonish FX to participate in a colloquium particular and the one tribute to their former professor .
i am sure that he has had the very moved the their presence and the people evidence of respect and the high .
here , London , the motion fray? a measure in politics .
i wish to some words on the election of 1962 .
however , the was a great victory pourJohn Stewart .
he has ramen? the party , the way , the government . the U the in which the candidate previous , Al Graham , the one left .
the senator Graham :
i had avoided that the
the senator Murray :
the senator Stewart is the - be a university the the gates the political , but it is the ever shown the d?tachement proverbial the the scholars the the respect to the events political .
the Canadian first , no - that the motion came in his riding or the Hon. the not to the ever escaped .
some years after the time when we mangions the all the midis the Antigonish , I was here , as the Deputy 1939 in the government Diefenbaker when he is out as member newly elected to Antigonish - Guysborough .
i am recall the one series of t?l?grammes separatists that I have received in the with a certain parcelle the ground that the government had achet?e or not had not achet?e in the city of Antigonish to the building a new building federal .
no grief not the thought , particularly when the Conservative were to the power .
this is a layman the the issues Constitutional and proc?duri?res and the the summer the Canadian our committee , the business foreign , but it is my I remind the best of the years , I have verified the receiving the issues , the are all these concerns that the the senator Stewart to the fishery in Nova Scotia Nova , for the impact on the Nova Scotia Nova the Canadian political federal , the Canadian traffic , for the construction of a bridge Work the the Island , Prince Edward Island , Prince or to the impact of the GST on all the Canadian .
the - that the the this university . drove the the spirit of party ?
i do I will be something to say .
as it . the many repeatedly , we alter a game of Team , and the the chapter , I must confess that he achiever .
the senator Graham has spoken of the two books that the senator Stewart . published on the philosopher Scotians David Hume , the Prime the Small :
" Moral The Political Philosophy of David Hume , and the second Opinion The Reform concern Hume' s Political Philosophy .
honourable senators , I do I do read the books .
in 1761 , the Church Catholic the tasking all the literature the Hume the the index and I presume that , by extension , the the books writing the the by John Stewart the blood the same help .
the not cannot be too prudent in the the case of the kind .
i consider that the removal of literacy the books enforce by David Hume or the Hon. the motion of a the the government to the constant cut by the Church Catholic .
further , but the " the index of anyone , he m?riterait the be read the all the parliamentary - but especially those of the other place .
the the world know that our colleagues , the other place . the not the great readers and that their sought the attention . fourth not the Canadian the oiseau - tail , but I have encourage the comments the chapter 1 .
they are reduced finally , descriptions the not be more limpide the Canadian House of the House of the Canadian the Parliament , around the same if the professor Stewart . refers not prohibit the Senate .
they are 241 , as I , I said , the Order in a place within the " the make out their prerogatives , and lireJohn Stewart their would a well , this regard .
with the beginning of the senator Stewart , we lose a the our best parliamentarians and the Nova Scotia Nova , a representative sanity careful and very appropriate .
if the government is the quality of signal and a board in the parages , I do . see no - secondary .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the senator Murray :
after the , if the senator Grafstein the the WTO the restructuring the former senator MacEachen the " treasury national the , we can the fair as the in the senator Stewart a valuable whereas , fee .
is why , Your Honour , the time came , I am , prepared to present a proposal , seconded by the senator Lynch - Staunton , the in the in the idea , to the the board served stood by the former senator MacEachen the single the perp?tuit? the Canadian section of the former senator Stewart .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the Hon. the Speaker :
i , I understand , honourable senator Murray , the honourable proposez a motion ?
the senator Murray :
with the leave of the Senate .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is the the Canadian agreed , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I am in my - the in a wheelchair the " authority to honour to be the next speaker .
this is a real honour .
this is to me a great pleasure , the honour to my colleague , the Honourable Senator Stewart .
the in listening carefully the other speakers , he I , time to the spirit that the senator Stewart . a chamber fantasque and humourous that he we , showed the the dinner that we have organized the Hon. honour when the by the , he has spoken of the day , he was involved in the room of the Senate and the treaty the senator Murray , tyran and the Speaker of usurpateur - by virtue , the following the the I , I heard that the
my remember the most sir , the senator Stewart . , not the chamber , but rather , my only visit to Antigonish , the I was reaching attend the Canadian Conference MacEachen .
the senator Stewart . the Canadian kindness the " tell the importance that the the university the the one unequal , St. Francis Xavier , and the mystery that wide for me all these people who circulaient the fact , the doigt a chevali?re orn?e the one X , the the people who were the the associated the my cabinet the lawyers and that I had the impression of the world in my hometown , Calgary .
i know the Canadian the people from the
i , I came to admire their education and the opportunity to appear the " have their forty St. Francis Xavier .
with the the faculty of the trempe the the senator Stewart , the quality of their education was something some .
the senator Stewart . played a role remarkable here .
i wish I also mention a the the literature .
i do I do read Hume and , as the senator Murray , I do I do the intent of the make , but not to the same reasons rigides to which the senator Murray , merely the comments Hume .
the following :
the leaders of the parties to the House of the the heroes overlooked .
each of them must be a double loyalty : to the party and make the House .
it is the people ennuis come to the fact that their colleagues . the soucient not the Canadian House of the , whatever . too .
sometimes , they not throw not the Canadian the House .
sometimes , they , allocate too , the , the so that all the concessions made to their counterparts to the transition the Senate just to the warning capitulations .
listen , the senator Boudreau .
he added :
the important , NATO the atmosphere of ambitions and contributions , the leaders of the House of the the functioning of the system .
i , I became extremely aware , then , I do the was not to my arrival the the Senate .
this , is the " the honour , in the the university and politician , the senator Stewart we , all prodigu? this transition .
if only we were all prepared to the suggested !
i would mean now , Senator Stewart .
the " the long - the mandate , the senator Stewart . was a great Leader of
he has the years with distinction the the committee , the business foreign .
my experience in the area , limited , I can now have a view of the difficulty of this task .
the Canadian Hill the the Parliament , the senator Stewart . a number of the brilliant , and I am hasten the state , honourable senators , the us are all of the brilliant the loss Stewart .
we , namely , professor , the " the many occasions , we have learned of the and we follow the lesson to the years of our deliberations .
senator Stewart , I believe that the most of tribute to this chamber can make the one senator , the motion of the sincerity the deep respect .
your contribution we miss ; however , you we declare the all of legs asset and especially the the principles . important to us guide .
that your retirement , leads the new experience , the beautiful books , read and the write , and the certainty to train .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the Honourable Roch Bolduc :
honourable senators , I have met John Stewart to the first time to the fall 1988 , when I have been appointed to the Senate .
during five years , we have served the " the committee , the Finance Finance and the the clearing years in the us we all of the part of the committee , the business foreign .
we have the other things in common : the the students higher the the United - United , a position of university , a taste particular , the philosophy policy , and the the I appellerais a certain vocation to the service public , John Stewart , in the the House and Senator , and I , as usual and Senator .
the other things we apart .
John is a English - which Scotian ; it is protestant , gripped to the United - United . in the one Liberal Diploma the Harvard , and a writer distinguished .
i am speaking , Canadian French , Catholic , progressive as the people of Medicine , friends of the United - United and former manager .
i must say however , the " the years of the years , we have shared the many tasks the the analysis by the Canadian and expense government , the study of the various aspects of the political foreign the the Canada , and the particular , his political gain in the Canadian the importance increased the the way of Trade international the the years of the last decade .
obviously , as the the said , Senator Murray , John was the the Agreement - free - free .
i suppose that is the because the the exception , the Canadian the Opposition and that he did defend this position knowing that we d?fendrions the Government shrinking and that , in the analysis , the armed the Canadian , fix .
it would also be the the the amorphous that the ALE not the not also a to us that the Covenant of the automobile , the just the be denounced by the Organization World of the trade .
what the the in the , the vice the opportunity to sharpest debates of the Senate , transfer to the Act , GST , but much more civilized that is the , I must the " .
the the committee , the Finance Finance , we have covered the many areas , in particular , overall aspects of the political administrative government .
our study of the recommendation Royal I was drawing the the worthwhile imp?rissables .
our savant friend , John Stewart , sir , the Orders Parliamentary , the reason , the article a book , 1997 , notes a malin happy to pull the many witnesses in their recent retranchements with his arguties legal .
they have reached think the the squabbling m?taphysiques the the cardinals century of the j?suites and the thomistes , and other , Suarez .
the comments of philosophical , I must you wish to honourable senators , the only one of my is Dr. the right public and the students government , but that he has also a control . Science policy and that he is a specialist internationalement recognized the David Hume .
he has issued two books the the writings of Hume .
i can you say that , after the third of biography of Hume , I have made conscience of many similarities of John and the great author Scotians : the love of the books , the frugal , the attrait the Canadian psyche , a wit sceptique but widest .
i am saying time that he is the Montesquieu the Canadian Nova Scotia Nova .
the heroes was a good friend of Toner Smith , the the I do think that the loss that the so high regard to me .
back - in the David Hume .
he is a the one publication semestrielle that the worlds of the philosophy university feel greatly .
in the group auguste the brilliant scholars , I must you say that our colleague . doing as a great priest .
in November 1995 , we have had a " a compelling critical the Hon. second Beauchesne the Hume .
John has championed with gracefully his thesis recommendation that Hume the the Hague the Canadian tradition Liberal British and the Canadian the Prairie conservatrice .
the one of the criticism , Douglas Long , the actions :
John B . Stewart the motion revealed be a time , the one understands the Canadian Foundation Hume serious , wit and sensitive .
i am incline the one such variety of talent or commonality the basis to our Senator the move the Canadian theory policy , the practice policy .
after the , he has been elected three times and the , he not . not just a great mind notional , but a historian appropriate to the last centuries of the life policy British .
in the the chairman of the committee , the business foreign , he has failed editors lead our students , the important , the the place to the many proposals appropriate , the us , for the the motion of guide the direction international the country , the
our last report on the impact of the Union European the the Canada , the exception the " the the us we do it is the few years , is a great example of this .
the next , the the the run the CHST the chairman , the the NATO and the Canada , should also obligations of pride all the honourable opposite , the - raising the the work of the committee .
during the the career policy , John has fought for the interests legitimate the the people of the Maritimes .
i hope that he will we leave to go live a nice retirement pleased , but I am sure that he not the not yet wrote his last book .
i would wish to life vibrant , the the rights of gloom , the as the famous previous British .
the Honourable Marie - P .
Poulin :
honourable senators , the the years of the 132 years , the are minute been the Confederation , the many distinguished Canadians have served in this chamber .
their expertise , and wisdom , and precision and their coolness the leading largely the the good practice of the business of our country .
we know that we have been we a Canadian consumers did , the senator Lynch B . Stewart , the person in the legitimacy the guys the the panth?on the the great g?ants the the Senate that are the honourable Eugene Forsey , Raoul Dandurand , Denise McQueen Fergusson , ConAgra Wilson , Chubby coal , crimson Duff and Eric Meighen .
they have all made a contribution . " the remarkable , as the historian or observer of the Senate will the evidence .
the contribution of the senator Stewart been his appointment to the Senate . there has 15 years will have the spirit p?n?trant and his extensive knowledge , the the will agree a reputation uncommon among his colleagues .
this is a reputation the the d?bord? the managers the this chamber to the r?pandre to the the locations the decision of the country where the Province of the business foreign , the Banking , the trade and the fishery the Canadian the negative .
the as the Middle all those who have been trading in a debate with him , his very much eloquence is a weapon beware .
the senator Stewart . is no plans to the overstating or the Canadian grandiloquence .
this is a scholar , a man dignified and delicate , a " approach man , as the said , the
the Province are still ?quilibr?es , a quality of character the motion . appr?ci?e the one of the Hon. opinion , and I have had the privilege of the plight often .
this politician , professor and writer the fact honour to our institution .
this is a loss for us and the the country . the time , time to the Canadian life of the .
the ideas and the action we miss looking , and that the good advice .
i wish to our friend . the the the , the Canadian better in this new step the the life .
the Honourable Norman K . Atkins :
the week next , we retirees tribute to the senator Lewis Lewis , the Canadian the Canada Atlantic .
the so we have the the opportunity to do make their accomplishments , as the the Senate that the , we are tristes the the idea that all the two quitteront the Senate in the next day .
this is a loss real , as to us who Kashmir that the the Senate . as the institution Parliamentary .
in recalling the the committee and the the Senate . the Senate , these two senators , and succeeded to challenge the tone the the debate , in his the the issues . the study of perception and the wisdom learning to the long - and careers different .
we , Marg our best wishes to his retirement .
as the the senator Lynch Stewart , the the represented the Canadian House of the House of Trinity the Antigonish - Guysborough , in Nova Scotia Nova , he is the only capita the Canadian Nova Scotia Nova the record the the very Cook' s Captain , the motion unborn my great - Polish .
this is a banlieue the Guysborough .
the senator Stewart is a university , a predictor and a specialist the the atmosphere .
the my arrival the the Senate , I knew the senator Stewart only to regain , by the Senate to the House of the House and the most of unfailing the Senate academic .
but , when I am become member of the committee on the the business foreign , I have been filled the professionalism the the knowledge and the accuracy , as the chairman of the committee .
those who have charged to demean our institutions government would the " to the work of the senator Stewart as this is the the other place .
he has always considered as the important , the Canadian the Parliament in the corporation Canadian , the as it was to preserve the process parliamentarians , the role of a careful raisonn?e and the meeting of good times .
the the was the case , any of the Canadian speak if the comments that he entendait were endowment .
it , the , he not the ever d?rog? the Canadian discipline the party , the the fact , he is a Liberal .
in addition , he not the almost have missed a meeting for his appointment .
the senator Stewart notes the responsibility . " the serious .
this will find the not more the look in the Canadian I and the Right the parameters for the Canadian and some , good and bad , will raised in this room .
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , today , the us say Adieu the the one of the parliamentary the most distinguished and the most trying to the boss in the honour to know , 36 years .
as it has been agreement today , the the Senate perdra the one of the members of the outstanding when the senator Lynch Stewart will the retirement tomorrow .
the us , the the side - the Canadian the chamber , he is the close to be irrempla?able .
the senator Stewart . spent his life , the learning , the the post and the Canadian public service in his province , the Nova Scotia Nova , and the " the Antigonish Francis Xavier , in his sister city native of Antigonish .
he has been a partisan and the conscience of the Liberal Party of the Nova Scotia Nova and the the Liberal Party of the Canada .
he is involved in politics federal , 1962 , as the House Liberal the Antigonish - Guysborough , the the the the end for three re .
this is over the period - I was then a young journalist Parliamentary - that I , I known .
the senator Stewart we , the benefit of the expertise with wisdom and judgment .
i know that the honourable the the side - the the ennuieront serious the the advice .
this could well be a day esteemed to the senator Stewart .
the senator Murray , the patriation a position perp?tuel .
however , I , thus , reflect serious the this proposal because the the the likely to a small fortune the lone Chairs in order Parliamentary .
the leadership the the the fact , the the committee , the business foreign the summer the cool the and the front the , as maintaining the young .
the senator Stewart . the one of influence on many of the us .
i have lived a time magical , the election of 1988 , when the senator Stewart I was asked if I want to the Canadian the committee , the business foreign .
i have the thought that I had the successful .
he I , then getting the I do devais serve the years , medical the the Maritimes to the us can meet our commitment to adopt the Agreement - free - free before the 1 January 1989 , the the case where our innermost - to the opposite d?clencheraient the the election .
what the the in the , this period has been rich and New .
i , bless a great remember .
a time . the speech , I am persuaded to my office normal the the Senate .
he I have more to be called as member of the committee mythique that is the committee , the business foreign .
i treasure hope the , sent .
i wish I do a moment to the the the senator Stewart . work , the public . the committee .
the the years of a decade agit?e by the the regroupements trade international changeants , by the the perturbations financial and trade victimized in various regions of the world and to the the impact of the Canada and the one increase unfortunately too due to the number of the mother military injuring , the senator Stewart . When the committee in the the students offended and highway the people served in the extreme and the the leaders political the the Canada and the same , when they have had the intellect the comments of reports or the in the the Canadian only .
he not the no doubt that John Stewart the motion deep personally and with Alternative the definition of Government realistic the country face Increase to the peace in the context of the , as it . the said in a the the first interventions to the Senate , underlies time to us lasser and the us accepting the intention of the fight for our the .
while the the myth the vote of the creation of the Institute Canadian to the peace and the safety international , in June 1984 , he we , exhort?s the " concerning the mist the the finest and the the autumn the .
he has d?cri? those who is parlaient that the the " situation . the peace , the
in the " to the bidding today , the I wish read a short addressed the the speech that he has discharged , the the patient the Canadian , continue their efforts , each of the way , to the sauvegarder the pan as the Canadian peace World .
here is that " John Stewart the 28 June 1984 , this chamber :
as the said , old proverbe , he is to a resolute Increase to preserve the freedom .
we must come to our not , replicating the same things , we tutorial we , the and tutorial the new generations to the prospect and the extent that they lit .
this repetition not be not we do believe that we do accomplissions not .
each day that the peace is maintained , we have done any other and we must the Canadian new practices the extent that the situation changing .
honourable senators , the the words of the kind of the Canadian the heritage that we would John Stewart , as the work that he has done in this chamber , the the Parliament , for the Canada and the the world world .
i am personally sad the the look from the
this is a good friend since the long .
the support effacing and constant , when I was Leader of the government to the Senate , was blamed and the red .
i do have been laid this task . " .
i would wish to the health and the the rest , the the replacement to his province ador?e and to Antigonish .
John , continued to speak and the write .
you , missed , the I , the my husband Mike and the Bessie .
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , the motion of real privilege of the Canadian speak to the opportunity to the beginning to the retirement of the senator Stewart .
those who have known the senator Stewart . the long that I , the previous the honour .
i wish when the share some thoughts with my colleagues .
however , the motion also the senator Stewart the us . learned that the Parliament , the motion . the Canadian and address ?loquents , the motion of skills of information between us , the us question of the issues , the in place to the the consensus and the same the the purchase of agreement .
i wish to thank the " to teach that he not there has not the my skill the highway , he is the so I depend the editorials the other .
in the public national , we must seek the same the the purchase of agreement .
since my arrival the the Senate , I have had the honour to sit in the committee , the business foreign and the in dealing the position of Deputy - chairman .
let - I , whichever , the pi?trement I am in response , the the the senator Stewart . said , our committee .
the most of the honourable the risk to the committee , supporting to make their own . the view .
as it . " , the the high the country own pi?destal , we want to dominer , with our courageous , our thoughts , our principal and our goals .
he considers the the chairman of dollars the way of committees . the evidence disparates and the the editorials of meaningful their efforts .
the senator Stewart . certainly was in the Canadian media . You the the committee , the business foreign .
we do we not easy .
we had all of the opinions . opinionated .
the senator Stewart we , certainly all the Canadian of the other the honourable and the make concerns our view of the .
he was the most beautiful quality that a chairman that the " he was just the fair to the respect to all the members of the committee , the the respect to the question and the the respect to the responsibility of the Senate .
he has made to the committee . the I ch?ris the most , the knowledge of allure spark .
about six months after my arrival here , then , I d?ployais the my eloquence the one point of the one another , a senator has consult the " no , setting not because the I was a spell .
the that the the independents not the the first , compliment .
each time that I have made the honourable the one issue , however , I have had the feeling that the senator Stewart we encouraged to the Canadian raffinement and the entire in the study of the issues , we were before .
he was the virtues of the council the the Order of time to other .
the many of other , he was the virtues of the governing the work of the best and a little more , the the committee .
as the senator Bolduc the the said , our special are ?loquents .
they have been done by the the representatives of areas important , sometimes by the the people of the government , sometimes by the the people of the governments of the country , and always the most of Inter - to the political foreign .
in the work , the senator Stewart the motion . served the Hon. charm and the Hon. the and the ever shown a desire sincere the make extra the business of the Senate .
the many of other , when the other pepper the head , the senator Stewart was able to keep the word and the act in gentleman .
the ability to keep the personalities and his civility and the government , the relative to the process . the most great leaving the " may have the
senator Stewart , I would thank the all your years , the head of the committee , the business foreign .
i would thank the the things that you we have enseign?es .
the other senators , he enough length of your abilities to the post , then I do I engage not the the point .
however , I share would be the Canadian , the
i hope that the senator Stewart continue to follow the close our work .
i hope that he continue to the movie in the environment university and the environment policy and , particularly , I hope that he continue to pull the Canadian , the the levels of curiosity and the awards that he has achieved in this chamber .
the Honourable Peter A . Stollery :
honourable senators , the motion of the the I have appr?hend? - the retirement of the senator Lynch Stewart .
i do knew not the senator Stewart before the arrival the the Senate , in 1984 .
some of the subject of the respect to the senator Stewart to the leaders parliamentarians .
i understand that the
we have forgotten that , since 1984 , we have the the governments dispelled .
the senator Stewart . was elected by a low majority in three Parliaments the the government was offered .
i have also been elected in both Parliaments the the government was offered .
in this nearby , the whip the responsibility of the Leader Parliamentary .
i have always had a great guy to the senator MacEachen and , when I have the Canadian knowledge of the senator Stewart , in 1984 , I am become a fervent admirer of the last .
he has made a contribution huge the the committee , the business foreign , the I am member for the us we join our hearings on the Agreement - free - free , in 1986 .
the committee . is unfair . numerous , and the senator Stewart , is much of the .
he is the just impossible to explain to be the the senator Stewart . the one impact on our committee .
honourable senators , the senator Stewart is a wonderful professor .
the people who , the known before I shall the people , the
however , I , I have the knowledge of the senator Stewart here , the the Senate , I can now firm that he is , the the least , my eyes , the most of Stamp that he I am never been given the meeting .
he we , provided how deal of business public .
he has the great allows and the great principles .
the most of the , the extent that we vieillissons all , we are interrogeons the the values and the principles .
when the meeting of human as the senator Stewart , the experience . the stimulante .
he is the - be politologue , but it is also philosopher .
this is the not a blue the the affectionne . particularly David Hume .
he does the same values that the .
he has made a contribution incommensurable the country Committee of the business foreign , the the doors of whom reports the the Chair .
our challenge is now , to the level of excellence .
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau :
this was the first time that I votais the Canadian and running federal .
i do Saskatchewan . The to be party I have voted , but I think that the senator Stewart I pardonnera the have voted for Louis Comeau , the was Grattan the the Liberal Party , progressive the the time .
in the , I believe that the senator Stewart I was pardonn? that the number opportunities .
my purpose . was not the record a election held in the the 31 years , but the make the the I would be rightfully that we got the one of the Canadian time to totally the committee on the Canadian and Oceans to be in the Canadian courts . the speech , require the us take contact the the senator Stewart , because he , the summer a member of contribution .
the the name of the members of the committee , the fishery , I , thank the Canadian the the the the leading to the Order of the issues complex the countries we have had the us look at the years of the years .
the magnificent capabilities the research , the knowledge depth and the knowledge - to the people agree the respect to the members of the committee , the the witnesses and the the industry .
when he is safe the the case complicated , the senator Stewart the the virtues of the streamline .
he was always prepared to us to the Canadian and anticipate advice .
in my name , and the the name of my colleagues , Senator Stewart , I wish to say that you we missed .
you have been for us all of the good professor .
the Honourable Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , for all these things which are senators , defended and lower , I wish to rereading the words , the summer speeches today , the the place . the senator Lynch Stewart .
my mate of shouts , the senator Watt , and I - the we were sworn the same day , in January 1984 .
this is the this opportunity to the I met the senator Lynch Stewart .
the person is that the biggest , we are upon all the same time .
senator Stewart , I have read the answer books .
i have recently completed your the book , the Act David Hume .
i must however fifth that the senator Stewart I , the patriation a copy to the make forgive the have touch for three years , the book that I , I came .
in my offering the book , he I was said that he not me why not pay the costs of gardiennage to the other .
the senator Stewart . sat with me to different committees .
i am recall particularly the the time when he was transformed provisoirement a friend to a committee Special responsible for the the bill to the C - 21 on the assurance - unemployment and the us we have we make the Canso , in Nova Scotia Nova .
he is that the the senator Murray and the the honourable Conservative the in the the in 1989 , the Canadian . expenses particular in this area particular , we had ralli? the opinion public and the media , the bill to the .
honourable senators , the Scotians - Scotians John Stewart , the country Scotian , and the senator Allan J . MacEachen , the Scotians - Scotians and the country Scotian , professional , they both the presence with the the main , the
the Canadian the campaign the obstruction seeing the 1990 in this chamber , the subject of the tax on the events and services , they have the mess the the senator Murray , the Canadian the government , and a certain other person of the Nova Scotia Nova the country Scotian . the negative the Canadian myriad that they dance .
honourable senators , founded Blake what the Canadian a great many of the the best of the lawyers , the years , the Parliament Canadian , and Allan J . MacEachen , for the the best Parliamentary the have been served our country .
i wish add that John Stewart . was personally the most of learned and philosopher the have been served the Canada .
the character Lorne the the soft intellect , the clarity of the spirit , the knowledge that he was the the functioning of the Parliament , the the principles and the Canadian moral the fishing the the Liberal Party of spanning this period . painful and sometimes lightning bridge in the independents the the Opposition the 1984 , 1993 .
i wish thank the senator Stewart and the sincerity of the po?tique the largest and the respect particular , I have to the .
since you are Scotians - Scotians , Senator Stewart , the " nice lady the Canso the , as I was called a time , Senator MacEachen , you said : " Bon wind Captain . "
some of the us , honourable senators , we attended the , the few years , the conference MacEachen the the Antigonish Francis Xavier , the Antigonish , and we had the opportunity to examine the close a farce the people were trained the most great the the country .
i wish to complete you read a or the Canadian Bible the this school , the the motto .
it is really the the ?p?tre the the Philippiens , Chapter 4 , verset 8 :
the the rest , Somebody , the first , the motion true , the the the motion hon. , the the the motion just , the the the motion rejection , the the the motion kind , the the the credit the approval , the the motion vertueux and skill of louange , the the subject of your thoughts .
senator Stewart , I would wish to good retirement .
i want to await your next book the David Hume .
you quittez this place informed the country deep respect and the entire our admiration .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
i am came here , there has some weeks , with tremendous need to a mentor the Canadian of the the senator Stewart .
he has been enough nomination to me sponsor in this institution and the fact that he we leaving now , then , I education . " only began , none has to me a deep regret .
i must you say that is not . not the first time that this . so .
in 1962 , I am came to the Antigonish Francis Xavier , the Antigonish , anxious to study of philosophical and the Science political and engaged , too , that the full a student of John Stewart , the professor , a little as it is the few weeks .
unfortunately , I , the Canadian time , I arrived the the university , he is party to challenge the challenge of the life policy and leads a career . " the architect .
the the time , that , I have lost the opportunity to follow the lesson of a teacher .
honourable senators , I say that the one reason .
the senator Stewart cannot that , in the culture and the Prairie ?cossaises , the pr?sages are part of the beliefs .
this are the the things which annoncent the events to come .
my arrival the the Antigonish Francis Xavier the 1962 , the the sign , for the senator Stewart , the the beginning of a new and retired career , unfortunately , I .
i am sure that my arrival the the Senate , he is the few weeks , pr?sage , a time , his new , exciting , a and retired to the .
the Honourable Catherine S . Callbeck :
honourable senators , I wish I join the my colleagues to the honour to the Honourable Senator John Stewart .
i wish to point that I share of the heart of feelings the people were the principles views by many of the our colleagues that the - afternoon .
i do add that some words .
the senator Lynch Stewart . the the links very strong with the Island , Prince Edward Island , Prince .
the father is unborn in my province and a good part of the family , section , the
the the the senator Stewart . there be not unborn the - the , he is the lifestyle for five years and I , as a as a resident of the Island .
the house Stewart the the path Keppoch , in the Charlottetown , is now , companies , the doctor Colin McMillan , the brother the the Honourable Tom McMillan , the the fact , the the cabinet the Brian Mulroney .
from me , the Canadian the region Atlantic the the Canada , I must say that I am very sad the look the senator Stewart we leave .
the experience , the knowledge in the many areas and the commitment to the the Canada Atlantic we miss certainly far .
since my arrival the the Senate , he is the two years , I have often called the the assistance and the the advice to the senator Stewart .
i wish to thank you today , for the the the the the fact , I .
as a one of the importance , this afternoon , afternoon , the senator Stewart . Marchand , visitors in this place and his presence and his interventions we miss looking .
however , I am sure that he continue to work for the best , the Canadian all the Canadian .
senator Stewart , I would greetings my best wishes to the opportunity to your retirement .
the Honourable L?once Jeffrey :
the Canadian the reception , the other night , the the coming of the Senate , the the price fabuleux and very frustrating the same . was equal .
my three colleagues , the honourable Bacon , Barth Barth and Maheu , were guarding the question table .
they regardaient the time to other the senator Stewart .
i would have asked : " that is the the the honourable you to the look ? "
they have been said : Mr. Justices , the senator Stewart . the air , young that you . "
i am so indispos? to the subject .
i believe , honourable senators , the the then change . , the way of the the things , the opportunity to the beginning of a senator .
you not have not the more the best of this man .
it is the not the meaning , the the honourable you .
i have a list of things that I will you say , the the truths , not the the inventions .
it is three years , I , I .
the Donna these testimonials , m?rit?s today , the one of the culmination the introduction of adjournment to the first , the parte the same time .
it will be difficult to the retremper tests .
the lives of nostalgia .
the not the not the time , the " that a monopoly . " he .
moving the Gallery speech , the so , the period of the issues .
the right - you not thought that if the senator Stewart the in the , I fares a vote ?
the should try to change our way of the to function of the important , starting the somewhat a .
when I When the small school and that the inspecteur just we showed , he we miss break .
the the make the same thing to the Senate .
this is the we to the Order of the Order the northern the near or the Monday .
we do we do the terrible the suggested today , the " less of the suggested to the
the oubliez not , Senator Stewart , the authority to adjourn .
i finish forget the the things representing the " fascinent .
you have forgotten , honourable senators , the " that this man . demonstrated the qualities to the be the , the the was a man intelligent in his discussions and sensible as chairman of Committee .
he has made to the Canadian many challenges with distinction and the visible a great sense of the responsibility .
as Senator , he has provided to establish the calumny usually of the Senate .
this man . Therefore the Senate as the other people of marqueront in the future .
during the three years , the years prompted I have had the opportunity to work with him , I have been developed the qualities of stuff , the sincerity and the respect to the other .
in his life personal as the the life professional , he has failed gain the respect and the professionalism the the chamber and the the knowledge .
the senator Stewart 21.2 the following the pr?cepte the Nobody am not to Johnson is that smokes not want to the " Greg the " Hold - the . "
is a good rule of life .
finally , the one mentioned personal , I wish congratulate the senator , a thing the Canadian and be held evidence , the knowledge the wonderful , the the substance , and I wish to the " it . on the Hon. tailleur before the the us leaving .
i know that I speak to the name of all the " that the Senate . the Canada meanwhile today , a great as the
the models and his wisdom we miss .
i would wish to the rest possible .
the Honourable John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , as the senator Graham : the said , in 1962 , the " the guest the agony the information the nomination Liberal in the constituency federal - Antigonish - Guysborough .
i do knew not how respond .
the House Progressive - Conservative the the time , Captain O Grattan , the became the late a member of our honourable chamber , was very esteemed .
the most , the side of the owner policy of Stanfield , the " Big Blue Machine the Canadian the Ontario had the air , d?pass?e .
my wish to gain were very small .
finally , I have forgotten the Canadian resist .
i have justified my decision in my saying that the so that professor of Science political , he was the my duty of the free in this crop as if I was a job of research university .
in the Canadian the , I fus elected with a majority of 113 Senators .
i crunch a great the Canadian my great - and the the the 113 Senators , the the work of Alasdair Graham .
i have the successful the " to run in 1963 and the 1965 .
the Airport the Canadian card campaign before the election of 1968 , the to the Canadian fusionner the major part of the constituency of Antigonish - Guysborough with the Canadian Allan MacEachen .
i am so went RCC my privilege in the constituency of South West Power .
lacking the the the the 1950 in the major part of the rest of the Canada , the Scotians - Scotians . relationship not confer by the Trudeaumanie the Canadian . election .
the one time , we , the Liberal , occasionally the fight Mr. Stanfield , the Opposition the the time , the Liberal Party , progressive .
Allan MacEachen was the only Liberal elected in our province .
after my defeat in South West Power , I am editor university the the Antigonish Francis Xavier .
since the vice to me a business spark , I should the one of the the results of my research .
that I - I learned the Canadian House of the House ?
the first , I have learned the Province of people of Antigonish and the Guysborough and I have learned . the things , the subject of their wharves , the people brise - lames and , particularly , the the shelters need to complete the Senate . dragage before the beginning of the season of the lobster earlier , spring .
second , I have learned what was the problems economic the the west of the Canada .
in January 1984 , I have been appointed to the Senate .
that I - I learned the the Senate ?
the first , I have earned a new respect to this chamber .
this is the not the the first , the club the the old the , as the law some professors and some journalists .
second , I have learned that the Senate may be a job legislative , a .
the Canadian and members of the other place . , the time to spend the the bills of legislation , controvers?s or recognizing technical , and the motion reasonable .
the result , the work of the Senate without the Canadian the House of the House .
third , I have discovered the true value of the work of the committee .
the simple mention of the work of the committee . the feeling the the committee on the Canadian and business foreign .
the honourable strongest often the importance of the reports the the committee ; however , I believe that we pass too little of the " We the the reports in this chamber .
the example , our report on the Canada . Asia - Pacific the attention . the attention to the Olympic and the little to the Senate , the
i hope that our report on the European awaited a debate this .
the second report , the the Canada and the peace - the peace , should be prepared to this , weeks .
in the case , I am sure that you discuterez strongly the the constations and the the recommendations of the committee .
in the , I hope that the report of the committee , provoquera enough to The a monopoly debate .
i wish to thank the committee , the Banking and the the trade , and especially the senator Kirby , for the the the I have learned the CHST the member of the committee .
he , will the same for the committee , the fishery , chaired by the senator Comeau .
he is the the many of the " thank .
i outlined Irene Duy , the the summer my secretary during almost all my years , the Senate .
no task . was never too difficult to the .
i am pleased to the look with the husband , the gallery this afternoon , afternoon .
David marry the summer my 550 .
the knowledge and the work hard I have been along , particularly in the part of the Senate . the committee , the business foreign .
David Raynor , the motion professor the the University of Ottawa and a traumatic the country former colleague Macquarrie Macquarrie , not the aisles of the council . the the need to David Hume and veteran Smith the political modern .
i wish to you say that I have begun in the years 1980 to write a book the Vice Smith and that I have avid the one second book the David Hume .
the links are so Herv of these two authors !
Smith the motion seconded directly to the basis jet?es by the previous down the old .
as the the the said , overstating in the prior to the Canadian the report that I have the last , the committee . is much fi? the Canadian expertise of Peter Berg , our 550 .
in the case of the report on the peace - the peace , Wolfgang Koerner not the not physically the efforts in trying with great the success of the meeting of the armed the all the new the the Kosovo , the Defence European , the NATO and the United Nations .
this refers , moved by the senator Lynch - Staunton , the motion disinfection be . " the timely .
David Goetz we , drafting with his research outstanding the two questions : the one of the the intervention of the NATO , Yugoslavia , of the the United Nations and the other hand , the role that the Parliament be playing when the Canada participates to the the inevitable the peace - the peace .
three advice . served the committee to the years of the past years .
i refer to Serge Pelletier , Line Gravel and Till Heyde .
this and the the foreign , they have been our pilots tackle and shrewd .
all the people who have worked around the the Senate . played a role . It , the the the cheques the the Speaker , the the services of the Clerk , the the staff , the and , the course , the our members of security .
our colleague , the senator Fairbairn , the subject of Bessie .
Bessie is a chienne except and I humbly the senator Fairbairn the Canadian saluting the question of the
i wish thank all those of the honourable the " and the honour this day , the so that all those who I have heard in private .
you have contributed waited my qualities and , by virtue , you have put the guarantee very high to me to the future .
i would thank r?trospectivement and the displaced to all your good words .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , before the move the the business contains the Canadian day , I wish to the this opportunity to you wish to the confidence that you , you leave of the vacancy the the position .
i am very honoured and very badly .
with your cooperation and your with the us will work in the best interest of the Senate .
i am sure that we will all work together to the Senate in the respect and the dignity .
i wish to chance to the senator Stewart .
Maxwell Tabled '
the Day national the the child
the Honourable Catherine S . Callbeck :
in the last words of the Throne , the government has made several commitments to the respect to the children of the Canada .
he is described seven collective specific the will the the priorities the the years of the five years in the
as important that the the seven collective , I am a more particularly attir?e by the one of the provinces , the the concerns of support the the development of the children , the small worker .
the the number of the great experts in the area of the development of the young child found the doctor Fraser Mustard .
the Senate . R . shown that a response retreat is essential to the development of the child the the the it discredit the basis to the purpose of the learning , the the behaviour and the Canadian health , the the undergraduate the life .
the Senate . the birth to various programs in the area of the development of the young child across the the Canada .
i wish to bring today , the blood attention of the the program , the Canadian , awareness Alliance Initiative the Canadian the Island , Prince Edward Island , Prince .
this initiative community , the motion in June 1998 , a group of citizens involved .
it comes to the groups and the the organizations Works and the government , oeuvrent the Canadian and youth children and the their family .
the means the giving a way of the the solutions possible and the the deal to the causes fundamental the the problems social complicated the problems and youth children .
the Island , Prince Edward Island , Prince ; the the inclusion of this initiative a true role of Leader of the area .
a program specific the possible , the the support of the " combatants Alliance Initiative the motion entitled : " Meilleur departure . "
this is a program intensif the selection and the visit to home destined to provide the the support the the children , the Canadian birth to the the age of three years .
after the birth of their child , the parents of the region . g provide the possibility of the volunteers to a process of Humanitarian and the selection the Canadian and the implementation incombera the Canadian and nurses , health public .
the families who will the " the support the home will Thomson to a officer of the program , Meilleur departure . "
this program designed to other things , improve the functioning of the family and the whole a interaction parent - child positive and that a healthy growth for the Victoria .
the program will constant the June 2000 .
honourable senators , the children future . future and the year , the the opportunity to the Day national the the child , each community should be to the objective of the in the the the first years of the children are the best years .
if we want to the young Canadians . fail and perform the the achievements to them , for the other and the the future , we must ensure the the the the program , who , are the Canadian the prior by the " combatants Alliance Initiative the users a priority national .
Mr. . Irwin Cotler
congratulations to the opportunity to the election as member of the constituency of Mont - Royal
the Honourable Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , I commend today , I friend and colleague newly elected , the professor Irwin Cotler , the Fifth the the intervention and the comments . contains in the Prairie , the history and the heritage the former leaders of the constituency of Mont - Royal as Pierre Elliott Trudeau and John Humphrey .
the rights of the human , the Charter Canadian of the rights and Freedoms , the conventions international the the rights of the human and the law , the right earns the quality of life in a country democratic .
these issues fundamental , and the Canadian and , testify a sense to the life of all the day and they characterize the activities of Irwin Cotler .
the name is known of all those who , the the Canada , held strongly to preserve our society democratic and our rights abuses .
he is clear that a sense inn? the justice . " the basis of the commitment to preserve these values .
as the the said , The Presse Alan Dershowitz , professor the Harvard , in considering our new member of the Parliament :
he not to concern . " he .
he has travelled across the the world . the costs to defend the the men who , yesterday , the were in prison to their views .
those of the the need a little of their freedom :
Nelson Mandela the Africa , the South , Anatoli Scharansky the Israel , Andre? Sakharov the Russian , the Nobel the literature Wole Soyinka the the heat , Jacobo Timmerman the North America and Muchtar Pakpahan the Asia .
he the the fact , never the interest in the money or the Canadian publicity .
the following the words of Irwin Colter , the Prime professor and philosopher the right . the father , the the the ever , the Canadian permit the Canadian law was the matter of the important .
honourable senators , I believe that he has the deficit this sets .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
i regret to interrupt interrupt the Honourable Senator Finestone , but his time , honourable is elapsed .
let - you , honourable senators , the the Honourable Senator the objective the speech ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Finestone :
i thank the honourable senators ,
the professor Irwin Cotler the deep Women the world . the rights of the human .
he is now time that he would take the Parliament of the meaning of the equity , the the " and the the sollicitude to the constituents of Mont - Royal and the citizens of the Canada and the the world .
that the above , honourable senators , I wish Mr. Cotler the welcome to the other place .
i know that he we will ample the " reflection and favorisera the diversity of the opinions .
business routine
banks and Commerce
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
the Honourable Leo E . Kolber :
honourable senators , pursuant to the article 104 the the Rules and the Senate , I have the honour to table the Prime report of the committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade , the door the the Estimates incurred by the committee to the years of the first session of the th Parliament .
( the text of the report found to the Journals of the Senate . today , the motion
post post
tabling of the Prime report of the committee Special
the Honourable Mabel DeWare :
honourable senators , pursuant to the article 104 the the Rules and the Senate , I have the honour to table the Prime report of the committee s?natroial Special the the post post , the door the the Estimates incurred by the committee to the years of the first session of the th Parliament .
( the text of the report found to the Journals of the Senate . today , the motion
the adjournment
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 58 ( 1 ) at ) the the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate . stand today , the the Senate to the the traditional 23 November 99 , the 14 at the
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
leave granted , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Act , the outcome
bill to the Second - First Reading
the Honourable Anne C . Cools presented the bill to the S - 12 , the Act , the Act , divorce ( child to disadvantaged ) .
( the bill to the motion read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . second time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Cools , the second reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the Chair of the traditional 30 November 99 . )
business Social , Science and Technology
notice of Motion During the committee to allow the heading Ministerial
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I give notice , the the name of the senator Kirby , the traditional next , the lines November 99 , he carrying :
that the Committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , clerical the WTO the heading the the deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible . the .
notice of Motion During the committee to withhold the the services
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I give notice , the the name of the senator Forrestall Kirby , the traditional next , the lines November 99 , he carrying :
that the Committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , clerical the services of the Canadian counsel , clerical , clerical the board or other elements necessary to examine the bills of the , the substance of the Canadian law and the Estimates budget , he have been providing .
notice of Motion During the committee to examine the facts new the the Euthanasia and the assistance to the suicide
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the traditional 23 November 99 , I move :
the particular , the the committee be authorized to examine :
the extent in the people were fishing in the the recommendations unanimous made in the report ;
2 . - established to the Canada . the various issues candidates in the report ;
3 . - established to the foreign the the various issues candidates in the report .
that the committee , the report final the the most final 6 June 2000 .
banks and Commerce
notice of Motion During the committee to study of the Canadian the system fiscal domestique and international
the Honourable Leo E . Kolber :
honourable senators , I give notice that Tuesday next , the lines November 99 , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade , though the review , to the in the report , the situation exists the the system fiscal domestique and international ;
that the documents and evidence collected the the subject to the years of the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament and the other document Parliamentary and evidence relevant the reports on the removal the the committee ;
that the committee be authorized to allow the heading the the deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible . the ;
that rule of practical consequently , the committee be authorized to table a report interim the reports on the Canadian the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate . " no , and that obedience report be deposited have been tabled the the Senate ; and
that the committee , the report final the the most final 31 December 2000 .
privileges , Standing and Orders
leave to the committee , sitting , the time that the Senate
the Honourable Lucie pin :
honourable senators , the the name of the Honourable Senator Austin , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 58 ( 1 ) , " the the Rules , I move :
that the Committee on the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules the power to sit in December at 1:30 the duration , the so , the Senate , the date , the end December 1998 , to the the Committee be to the issues of privilege raised by the Honourable Senator Andreychuk and the Honourable Senator Kinsella , the people were d?f?r?es the the committee ; and that the application of the rule 95 ( 4 ) the the Rules the sitting , this regard .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , you pleasure , he and the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
official languages
leave to the committee Joint Committee of sitting , the time that the Senate
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I wish to a request to the honourable , respecting the the Senate . the committee Joint Committee of the Official Languages .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore is a the the committee .
i , therefore , would pose in the name .
the honourable senators , the the name of the senator Cool - Cool , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 5 ) 1 ) , " the the Rules , I move :
that the Committee Joint Committee of the Official Languages be authorized to sit during the committee and the sittings of the Senate and
that a message be restored to the House of the House of the in the .
this committee has become served the so , the Queen the the same time , and the motion is consistent the the use of the Senate .
in the , the committee has the intent of sitting Tuesday next , before our meeting of this place .
it explains . why he is the deal of this motion now .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the business foreign
the Sudan - Government participation of the corporation Talisman EnergyInc. - Government Response the the criticism of the community international
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
i am sure that the the world does the parabole the Canadian poutre and the Canadian paille .
the Canada . is the the persistent the the well - be the Canadian the safety of the people across the the world .
the Minister of the Foreign External , Mr. Axworthy , is speedy the records the country abroad , not signed not the rights of the people .
yesterday , however , the 251 the state of the United - United the de the roles and the promotion criticized the Canada because the the operation of businessmen with the Sudan by the University of the business oil Talisman EnergyInc. , the Calgary .
the Americans have also accused the government Liberal the have evaded the " the approach positive the Canadian political foreign the " clumsily the most of the the atrocities along by the system of Khartoum the .
the 251 the state states that the activities of Talisman in the area of oil and the Sudan are facilit?es by the use of the Pentagon , the helicopters armed and the papers and Transferred , the the civil , armed the by the government . Khartoum .
the Americans concerned that the investment the Talisman in the area p?trolier the the Sudan encouragent the system fondamentaliste the Khartoum the objective of War civil in the south of the country .
the " now , the government . the Canada . the not yet ordered to Talisman the the simplest the the Sudan and not the not imposed the sanctions to the country . despite the the pressure pressures have a year , the Minister of the the Foreign Affairs , the the NGOs Canadian and international the same that the Canadian Coalition inter - churches the the Africa .
in the , Mr. Axworthy , the fair to accept the message a mission of inquiry . the Sudan .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , this issue . was reaching the the attention of the government . the Canada , and the specific the the Minister appropriate .
it is taken very the the serious .
the reports setting a link between the business private Canadian ports , the senator and the the abuses pr?sum?es the the rights of the human and the the right international treatment of serious concerns .
as the Honourable Senator the the importance , the Minister of the Foreign Affairs , sent a commission Canadian independent the the Sudan to whether the the , the Canadian and lifestyles of the abuses of the rights of the human and the business . the .
a report , will the and the will the government , the CWB , in the way to the
the Sudan - Government participation of the corporation Talisman EnergyInc. - Government Policy the the government on the Opposition of the plateforme the Canadian Transportation human and the interests of the investors
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the question that the " must be able to the foundation , the motion of the knowledge , this business private Canadian violates the rights of the human and the right international .
if the motion of the , the government . the Canada could the indicated , the sanctions economic and trade respect to this activity .
as the RCAF the government that he has been taken , he is clear that the Minister is very concerned and that he Glenney handcuff as the the will the labour the report of this inquiry independent .
the trade internationally
the Agreement - free - free North - American - Conformity civil magazine by a society Processors , adjustments the Canadian Grain the one contract the Upholder the water , vrac - Government Position of the government
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I have a question to question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
i believe that the one little business consolidated called Sunbelt the magazine a civil , whatever - interest of about 10,5 billion . $ , the government , for the cancellation of a contract by the government . the British - British the view of the Upholder the water , vrac .
Sunbelt based its action on the provisions of the NAFTA the the rights of the investors and the treatment national - that is the " - that the rights representing the the investors - and the Canadian and damage - interest , only to the returns perdus , but also to the lack of gain .
obviously , this action . will not heard by a court average , but by a group of expert committee , the Order of the differences .
the government . the decision recent the one group of expert the the NAFTA in a matter countless a society American the the government mexicain and the well , the tremendous the the investors , the government ' s , he prepared to the defence from the the end , this action . Sunbelt ?
i ask that the because the , in the unwitting the Canadian the MMT , the government has capitul? the Ethyl Corporation and agreed to the remuneration 20 million . $ .
the case . the ever been heard and the government has conc?d? that Ethyl Corporation the right to this package .
you , you we say , the government is prepared to go to the the end in this matter , the government . the previous ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , clearly , the fact that this issue , full the one group Special the Order of the differences seems unlikely a certain controversy .
i , returning to the Minister for the the in the the things .
i remember that if the case is the body the one court or a group Special the Order of the differences , the answer would the be very brief .
the senator Spivak :
honourable senators , this matter is the one group responsible for the Order of the differences the federal - trade internationally .
he not to a not the hearings public and the Orders . is not transparent .
the people to the Canada . know nothing to the the the existence .
this is a matter of a great interest to the public .
this is why I ask the question here .
the former Minister of the International Covenant , Marchi Marchi , the first , for the the process of settlement of the differences the bidding .
he is important that the Canadian officers , the in this matter , the rights of the investors American pressing before the Canadian and Canadians and if the government will be forced to contribute to the damage - interest , only to the returns perdus , but also to the lack of gain .
this is a matter extremely important .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the question fundamental , the motion of Government of the government to the respect to the export of the water , great feed .
i suppose that the Honourable Senator does fully this position , the knowledge that is the not be not export the water , great feed .
we have the Canadian one progress in the area and I am sure that the Honourable Senator , nevertheless .
this case , the talking the senator Spivak the be the one of the results of the progress .
however , I know , he would gain the the stadium - the Canadian before the detail the Canadian strategy of the government and the the government that he could take the " a case , in which a business American hardware the tremendous we .
the political the the government to the Defence , the the civil class by the the companies
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , if the motion , and if the Leader of the d?voiler the details , he is important to the so , in the case , this , the government is prepared to follow the Order of the differences .
this intelligence the course , the public .
i hope that the government . dreaming not to the secrecy with the corporation , as it . the fact , the case of the MMT .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I am sure that the government . the Canada will be the fact prepared to protect our interests of the opinion of the councillors .
i know what measures specific , will take .
he not . not appropriate to do know his position to the moment .
he is clear that , in the the concerns of the Canadian practice , the government has passed a position firm the the respect to the export of water , great feed .
the government , the entire the cooperation the the provinces , this regard .
we are suffering the one of National that we d?fendrons by all the average documentation .
the government undertake . the make .
the Senate . the s?nat
use the the Rules
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I rise to ensure a certain certainty in our proceedings .
the rule 56 ( 3 ) the the Rules and the Senate door the Canadian . the the opinion , to the said : "
the opinion blue here can be tabled by a senator to the name of a place , -
the senator Hays has given that the one would the the name of the Speaker pro tempore .
the rule 56 ( 3 ) specific that a senator can do the the name of a place , away , with the leave of the last .
the rule 55 ( 3 ) provides that when the Speaker wish to the the debate , he must leave of shouts and drug a place , the turn the Chair .
the senator who is also the Speaker cannot , to fully the the debate as the other senator .
i think that the same thing . Consequently the the Speaker pro tempore .
the subject . the magnitude , he would special that her the Speaker pro tempore leaving the Chair and that a place , the case , pursuant to the the rules the rule 56 ( 3 ) and the Canadian sense of the intervention such as it is being in the article 55 the the Rules .
we must respect to the the foetus the Speaker yesterday .
i do contesterai not the medical the Canadian Rules followed , but the the future , he would be the be the follow the the Rules .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I thank the Opposition Deputy of the Opposition the have raised the question .
i must recognize that I do I do the Canadian leave of making the motion under the the Rules , the " the editorials , I conclude that he has reason , I have suggested the motion to the name of the Speaker pro tempore .
i have tried to explain the reason for the I have the Canadian motion , the knowledge that it was the " a request of the Speaker pro tempore , the the not have the - be not have the reference .
i should be the fact the to see that the I have said exactly .
what the the in the , I intend was the authority to leave and the introduction of Motion I - the .
i do I do member of the committee Joint and I have indeed mentioned the Speaker pro tempore , the in the member .
i believe that the Canadian first meeting will be Tuesday next , the the this initiative .
i assure quite the comments of the senator Kinsella and I do bring not the " in the " the future .
i the deep the not . m the aspect or the not . refuse the leave , the the facilitera course , the Canadian the committee .
on business orders
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
second reading of Debate the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Kirby , seconded by the Honourable Senator Lewis , seconded the Canadian second reading of the bill to the C - 6 , the motion to facilitate and the use of Trade Ministerial the virtue of information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of the coverage to bring or put the the information and the the sophisticated and the Act , the Act , and the the Canada , the Act , the Statutory Instruments and the Act , the review of the legislation .
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , the trade Ministerial is a question , I expect to the most colourful the .
i am so very pleased to take the " the debate on the bill to the C - 6 , the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic .
this initiative to the protection of character private the the information personal collected , used or releases by some organizations Canadian in the part of the trade .
it states also the the criteria for a copy Ministerial s?curis?e the the purpose of the sophisticated electronic treaties with the government and specific how the courts will authentifier the documents electronic admitted the evidence .
the Canada has a need none of this bill to ensure the success of the participation in the economy World of the knowledge , a global in full necessity the , the the " the the experts in the federal , the weapon in the Canadian a year .
the finest , as the said , Senator Murray , is that the bill to the C - 6 not . not to the Inter .
the wording underlies the Ministries the confusion in the certainty and includes the very serious gaps .
he not . not sure that he can protect effectively the life private the the Canadian . in politics the success of their involvement the the trade Ministerial international .
this is that a uncertainty the the Canada . the not the average , he is needed the advantage in the Canadian competition in the economy World .
the bill to the C - 6 is the implementation of a government , the temporisation the cause today , the developing the entire skating the the Statutory the bill to protect the Canadian in the context of the expansion next , the trade Ministerial .
the government has left tra?ner the things and the " this offered its two main partners trade , the United - United and the Union European , the the are already outfitted the the instruments devise to the federal - trade Ministerial and the protection of the life private .
we know , the " Now that the trade Ministerial will change the manner the the Canada slow the business .
our country . a leader global in the Canadian Technology , the information .
however , the statistics 18.7 that the business of the country seem hesitate to use the mighty drives economic that is the trade Ministerial .
the following a study seeing the Angus Reid , the the spring the , the business Canadian . was lentes the operating the potential of the trade Ministerial , the the 12,9 million . Canadians are cool . - Inquiry
Beauchesne that , the the 90 per - and off the line Canadian dollar injected their sites , only 38p. per intelligence is the the sophisticated , line with the the companies Canadian .
it is really the us to what are the companies , enjoyed profit the the power to cancel the the 62p. per - off the line Canadian relies and the list of the the odd .
lacking the people Minister of the the business American the word go to provide the Canadian revolution of the trade Ministerial .
the small companies sp?cialis?es and the g?ants the the industry such as Procter & Gamble , by the , targets the the initiatives trade important , are depleted the use of technology the the trade Ministerial to optimiser the services proposed to the consumers .
compared , the business Canadian . the in Appointment by the " and business American in the area .
this imbalance the giving the the United - United , our principal trading partner and remains economic , the monopoly the the trade Ministerial when the last , increasingly is the the Canada .
we creating the losing of huge income to the Universit the our competitors American the reason , the protracted the Canadian response to the area private and the the government .
the bill to the C - 6 , in his form at the not do that exacerbate the situation and I will tell why .
this bill to the CRTC the way excessive the activities legitimate the the small and medium business and makes a new the regulatory clubs , the the " that surplus of the Canadian the impact of the cost .
he does the pr?sager a new series of stuff federal - provincial , because of governments of the Quebec and the the Ontario , there opposed .
a place . is interwoven the the fact that the bill to the C - 6 , applies to the the organizations trade , but it is known too , he is here , the the organizations . the profit or the Canadian and Professional as those of the right and the Canadian medical .
the example , the not know that specific , this bill to the the ports , the issues of a doctor .
this is the that the few of acknowledgement of the reasons for reasons the bill to the C - 6 , the the motion pass in his presentation at the the entraver serious the initiatives the the business Canadian , the Canadian trade Ministerial .
if the bill to the soup the limit the necessity of the trade Ministerial in the area private the the Canada , he is possible that he confronted the Canadian and business foreign the the giving a significant advantage competitive , we .
the nature , the the trade Ministerial the " the the business foreign the relentless the our rules federal and provincial , in conservant the ability to make party , transactions financial with the the obvious Canadian .
this situation could have the the effects devastating the the area private , the economy and , in the Canadian n , the consumers of the Canada .
the sense of the senator Murray I was sure that the bill to the C - 6 24 prepared to both the Canadian law , a .
the cause of 1 , the bill to the , the foetus the information personal collected in the part of the kind of activity trade 24 , a principle or the one of the
the parties 2 , 5 , the " the validation the the documents and the coverage the Constitution of the Act , the evidence to the Canada , the Canadian Act , the Statutory Instruments and the Canadian Act , the review of the legislation and the ax?es the one . the principle .
the I , affected in both the bill to the C - 6 lend the honourable senators , the committee in the study of the document and , the advent , and allow the the status of a review separate and the full of the two themes and principles that the " sur in the bill to the .
the parties 2 , 5 , the Deployment quickly and almost studiously the Canadian House of the House of the Canadian the debate has the answer to the part 1 .
the Senate . the the opportunity to the status of a compelling careful the the applicability of these 269 innovative proposed the initiatives to the implementation of the Canadian the trade Ministerial the the country and the private a refugee legal clear to some information electronic .
he is important that the committee that the opportunity to study carefully . " .
this bill to the fact expect been mothballed and the be adopted . the emergency .
in the the concerns of the 1 , all the issues of the provisions of the bill to the inclusion the protection of the life private be a analyzed the full .
the committee . should not feel that the the press the effect the study , the important to speed with the the government can add that the bill to the franchisse the reading of the Senate .
the protection of the life private is a right basic the all the Canadian and a measure legislation . " being in the area .
the the years of the last session of the Parliament , the committee Standing the the industry . the House of the House of items into the bill to the C - 54 , the previous the one - the .
he has heard the evidence of a great many of citizens , the experts and the organizations concerned , the people spoke of the importance of the seat the one bill strong and effective to protect the information personal and the whole the trade Ministerial the the Canada .
among those groups , twenty the the representatives of the Association medical Canadian , the the are against the the bill to the because the the elimination the forbearance the use and the communication of information to the the purpose trade and that he walked the have the the consequences negative to the care of health and the system of health .
recently , the other associations , care of the health and professional the Canadian health have phoned , wrote , and brought the the messages by mail Ministerial and the 1,010 the my office for agreeing their concerns the the subject of the bill to the C - 6 .
the representatives of the Association hygienist Canadian I have informed that is the Canadian law :
they have asked that the Senate ruined to clarify and strengthen the provisions of the bill to the the Criminal the the information personal the federal - health .
the doctor David Zitner , Director of the technology medical the my old alma mater , the University Dalhousie , the Halifax , the release with me to me relationship wording of this aspect .
he has said :
the the Canada , the Prairie to the " substantial the the information personal to the well public ( with the the statutory documentation to protect the life private and to the terms ) .
the activities of census are a leadership the Canadian and people can be forced to provide the the information personal in the public public .
the doctor Zitner believes vital that a bill appropriate manner in the the the organizations of the health , the governments and the instituts the research will use of information collected to the status of the the activities of research , health and the improvement of the quality of the care , in current the statutory documentation to ensure the protection , the safety and the terms of these information personal .
it means that the organizations of research and the institutions of health be used a bloc the information and write the the reports in determining .
the Association of the Bar Canadian is also pr?occup?e by the bill to the C - 6 .
in his presentation to the committee , the industry . the House of the House , it has said that the part 1 captions three major problems .
first , the structure of the part 1 is unusual in the Canadian and not give not really the good results .
the standard the volunteers was designed as a series of airlines guidelines that a company is to the application and the as a criminal juridiquement removal the Land the the rights and the the devoirs specific .
second , the Chambre the view , feeling of the the the role and the responsibility of the commissioner to the protection of the life private duplication some difficulties the the plan of the Orders .
the letter to the balance wanted to the rights of the human and the development of the trade Ministerial , the government must ensure the the the the authority public responsible for the enforcement of the part 1 , all the resources necessary to do the work effectively .
the same , for the Canadian protection of the life private the the people . the right . use of the average , Tibet the right to the organizations and the people employees to the terms , the would be a custom brings the the conditions rights proc?duraux and the bill appears unfair .
the committee on the then , the work rectificatif the make the clarify the unresolved .
third , the Association of the Bar the said that the bill to the sick the the issues relating to Constitution , for the the motion of the division the the powers between the governments federal and provincial , and the Charter Canadian of the rights and Freedoms .
the bill to the motion so ambigu that the Bar Canadian . " that categorically if the government , r?ussirait the exercise its powers , the extent Christmas , into the
the the end of the fact , the association doutait that the bill to the intestine the one consequence judicial .
the Canadian Position finally agreed . the Bar , the difficulties that there is part 1 , the Canadian structure , the procedures and the Constitution , the be corrig?es before the coming to effect of the bill to the , because the provinces seasons the cow the the problems of Tax the finiront by undermine the importance of this bill .
honourable senators , he is absolutely that we , in this chamber . reflection , surmontions the narrative and done . the the government . the not the - correct the weaknesses of the bill to the C - 6 .
we do we are we pay the luxury of the .
the price to pay for the attentisme or the procrastination the the the concerns of the in the Canadian a bill to the trade Ministerial is too high .
this trade is the expansion and the Canada . " the WTO the not . the loan .
he did exchange the the subject , the CHST the Canadian of the region Atlantic and the chairman of the Canadian the seaway the the Information Curriculum Institutes , or ITI , a the the locations the formation , Science and the information to the reputable the North the the North to the graduates academic .
Mr. . Cameron I was said that the brain to the United - United the Canadian , a strong training university . bel and the real and that he is the Canadian increase in the area of the technology the the information .
this situation is absolutely to the one kind of daily , the
in the the enseignant , Mr. Cameron is happy to see that the the business of high technology , tears the students and their readiness of the jobs enthousiasmants , assortis the fine salaries .
in the the Canadian and taxpayer Canadian , he not . not also pleased to see that the majority of the business of recrutent the students are the the companies American .
the business American are so empress?es the misguided the most of the possible . graduates the technology the the information that some have the Belgian the quality of the jobs , the the students , the ITI before the the people have concluded their education .
i have noticed the malaise legal Mr. Cameron having the report , the fact that a number growing the students , the ITI the people around their education . the trade Ministerial are now courtis?s route by several companies American .
a time that they have had their school , he is rare that these students remain in our country , believing Cameron think that we have already lost , the the Universit the the United - United , a number important to experts in trade Ministerial the people from their education . the Canada .
the United - United the previous a patient the displaced the us in the development and the implementation of the Canadian strategies the WTO the advantage profit the the economy World approach the the knowledge .
the answer lord the the area private Canadian , the respect to the trade Ministerial , conjugu?e the the political government restrictive the the plan tax and the report , the Income the the loans students , promoting the vote of the business American .
we do we not the one up to equality with the Americans , and the us will very difficult to support the Competition in the area of the trade Ministerial .
the bill to the C - 6 , the the lowest of the blundering the in the by the Union European and the will the the supreme the the approach American at the not do that empirer the things .
he is the one bill to the the plan to information personal if we want to the people accept the idea of the trade Ministerial .
the adoption of the bill to the motion also be to allow the the new drives economic the success , the international national and international .
the bill to the C - 6 not we will not the objective . objectives .
honourable senators , we do we all just not we to the feasibility the bill to the C - 6 such as it is made to the time at the
we have here , I , helping the bill to the order that he protects the life private the the Canadian . in allowing the the area private the playing and the sidelines forefront by the " our principal trading partner , the course , but also to the international World .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Kinsella , the the name of the senator Keon , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act , the Defence down - Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques - Code offence
bill to the Second - Second Reading
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Fraser , seconded by the Honourable Senator Ruck , seconded the Canadian second reading of the bill to the S - 10 , the Act , the Act , national Defence , the Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques and the Code offence .
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , before the planned my speech , I wish thank the Solicitor General of the Canada for the government , the the point that I have raised in the the study of the bills of legislation C - 25 , the Act , the Act , national Defence and the other Acts . consequential , and the the bill to the C - 4 , the inclusion the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques and amending the Code offence and the other Acts . consequential to the development of the bill to the S - 10 .
these projects the bill . was passed in the Canadian first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament .
i am pleased to see that the Minister has also made in suggesting the recommendations of the sixteenth Report of the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the the bill to the C - 4 , in the the the policy , the changes to make the the legislation to the Canadian and the Canadian bank national the data g?n?tiques the effective and the respectueuse the the right to the life private the the Canadian .
honourable senators , he I have made today , the wishes to the Canadian the bill to the S - 10 , the Act , the Act , national Defence , the Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques and the Code offence .
he has to the Canadian include in the bank national the data g?n?tiques , the the summer created by the adoption of the bill to the C - 4 , in December 1998 , the profiles the identification genetics the the Cold burdened the Constitution of the system of justice military .
as you the you , now , the provisions of the bill . delivery that the Cold the will burdened by the system of court civilian .
since the introduction to the Canada . 1988 , the analysis of the ADN the Canadian and for m?dico - jurisdictional the fishing the information the condemnation of readiness of some offences violent , and that the Ninth the freedom of the condamn?es the wrong , the courts .
the use of this instrument powerful in the part of investigations convergence the motion of the two stages .
first , in 1995 , the the changes relationship concerning the the Code offence , for the the levy of ADN the the assistance of a mandate in the purpose facilitate the potential of some investigation police and the identification of suspects .
the Canadian , the in September 1997 , the bill to the C - 4 was tabled the Canadian House of the House .
he was to the Canadian encadrer to the first time , structure and the board of a 2.4 national the fingerprints g?n?tiques .
this new legislation . inscrivait in the second reading of the action . the government .
he was to target of the one bank national cigarettes the profiles the identification genetics the the people interprovincial guilty of offenders convergence serious and violent , and the the ?chantillons the ADN misleading the the site of offending not resolve .
the bank the data should be Defence of this June of the year 2000 , and it will mean by the preserve Royal the the Canada , the Lord now six Laboratories court to the country .
honourable senators , the the I ever seconded the grounds the people led to the adoption of the bill to the C - 4 , I have the Canadian , set , the " a review thorough the this new legislation , the the departments of the Solicitor General and the Canadian Justice had forgotten the , cab the profiles the identification genetics the the members of the staff military who would burdened to the the heat serious and violent , as the motion of the to the individuals who will assume guilty of such crimes by our system of court civilian .
the 6 October 1998 , the Minister of the National , Arthur bag , admired the the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional to present the provisions of the bill to the C - 25 .
as the - the one of the Canadian reform the system of justice military , I have asked to the Minister if the military charged or misleading guilty the Constitution of the new bill be commended the the application of the provisions domain in the bill to the C - 4 .
the the time , I have also asked to the Minister what body of police , the Canadian Mounted or the Canadian police military would responsible for the levy of ?chantillons the ADN and the their conservation in the case of offenders the impliquent the the military .
honourable senators , these issues were very important because , the the provisions of the bill to the C - 25 , the heat the Order body parts by the the military whatever multilateral challenges of the courts military .
the most , the Minister of the Justice , Anne McLellan , the previous justified the creation of a 2.4 the fingerprints g?n?tiques to the the policiers have a fairly increased and that the extent of cover the opportunity to perpetrators sexual and the Wappel the ceremony .
despite the , the Minister and the military the Canadian National Defence . the not been in the Canadian answer to the issues .
the Vice - General J . Pitzul , the the army Canadian , the union that he not known not be the bill to the C - 4 to the ports , the staff of the army and the Canadian National Defence , the the the one . the number meetings with the the members of the Department of the Justice in the the one has the Canadian Army the the system of justice military .
he is a result of a deliberate . important in the bill , if the " Do that the bill to the C - 25 , the the board of the justice , the the public . the Canadian Forces Canadian , the transparent .
in the meaning , he was unacceptable that the military duty of a refugee particular , the excluded the the application of the provisions of the new Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques .
it is particularly true , the " the fact , the fact that the the years of the past years , several scandals involving the the military in Bosnia the the foreign in the the case abuse allowing and the roadblocks the fact serious the d?fray? the news to the Canada .
these incidents have terni the image of the army Canadian and the Hon. the Canadian law in the people of the
the organization of our society , the as the Canadian our right , require the motor .
all the citizens are equal before the bill .
they framework of the same rights , the Canadian and the obligations to the bill .
the the time , the members of the committee . the not necessary . the original the bill to the C - 25 , the the staff military the subject to the application of the provision , the Canadian bank the fingerprints g?n?tiques .
honourable senators , when we have examined the bill to the C - 4 , the , I have raised the new this issue in the the Solicitor General of the Canada , the was responsible for this new legislation .
in a first time , I want to the Hon. Department was in agreement with the the one occasion the Minister of the National and the officers of the army Canadian .
in a second time , I originally that the Minister . " that he was the fact , their evidence to make the the changes to the bill to the C - 4 .
the answer to the two questions was not .
the Canadian and the Canadian the committee , I had the Chinese the serious reservations as the the effectiveness and the Canadian lacked the matters the Canadian the bill to the the " tell , including , the the ?chantillons the ADN and the profiles not be not used to the other purposes that the specific in the bill , the motion ? " - that the Canadian and for the inquiry officers , and that the right to the life private the the people who would recognize the the levy of ADN the thoughtless .
i had the office in the the fact that the bill to the original that the profiles g?n?tiques , the armed Democrats in the " fichier criminalistique the and the " fichier the the recorded the , whatever be outstanding count , the one of was d?clar?e not quite , the one individual not the most things as suspect , or if a verdict the acquittement or the only the chronic final was said , the court to the place . a hopeful .
the I , these profiles , despite the the people should the scientific the Canadian Mounted , the framers of the spawning to reduce the risk that they are used to the other purposes that the prescrites in the bill .
in December 1998 , the sixteenth Report of the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional illegality the emergency the establishing a 2.4 national the fingerprints g?n?tiques the disability the the different body policiers the the country . operating fully the progress technological recent in the area for improving the safety public .
the report recommended that the the government , the strengthening the provisions legislation regarding the board of the bank the data g?n?tiques and the safety of the information , will domain in this last .
in the purpose of the " the concerns and the WTO , the adoption of the bill to the C - 4 , for herd the creation immediate the Canadian bank the data g?n?tiques , the Solicitor General of the Canada , author MacAulay , the motion committed , the Canadian , 50 the the committee , the 7 December 1998 , the present during the intervalle provided the 18 months of the Royal Assent and the coming to effect of the bill to the C - 4 , a new bill to the the disability , the Consolidated the juridiction the Canadian bank the data g?n?tiques the the response to the claimants guilty in the system of justice military ; and tough the commissioner of the preserve Royal the the Canada , the fact , the functioning of the bank the data g?n?tiques in the report annual the the Minister to the tabling the the Parliament ; and inclusion in the new bill to the one clause regarding a review Parliamentary all the five years , Sixtus the concerns of the members of the committee on the nature . sensitive the information that contiendra the bank the data g?n?tiques and the the evolution quick of the technology in the area , and to the the committee , the Senate and the Canadian House of the House of the power to make the the examination mindful the will require the Canadian new bill .
he is important to mention that all these areas blueberry in the sixteenth Report of the committee .
honourable senators , the bill to the S - 10 , the perpetrators the basis of some point soulign?s in the report of the committee .
the I , he is a the Canadian third reading of the legislation federal in the area of the use of the fingerprints g?n?tiques to the potential of investigations convergence .
the fight , the Solicitor General has asked that the bill to the Senate on the the Senate before the be tabled the Canadian House of the House to the the honourable so that the the all the point awaited pr?occupants have been avoided properly by your committee Standing the the business legal and Constitutional .
having relat? the history of the bill to the , I wish to address the question of the changes proposed by the bill to the S - 10 .
the the words of the new bill to the , as I , I mentioned the the beginning of my speech , the profiles the identification genetics the the Cold justiciables the Constitution of the code of biochemistry military who are occurs guilty of a violation serious and send the violence will mean in the bank the data g?n?tiques .
this book the GST to the staff military , the the reserve and the some civilian the Expenditure the the members of the staff military to the foreign .
in order to the provisions of the bill to the S - 10 , the judges military will proceed , first , the matter of the guidelines provisions the Canadian bank the data g?n?tiques the the respect to the justiciables , in order to the Code of biochemistry military , the will have d?clar?es guilty of a violation substances the Constitution of the Journals of the Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques , and second , the spirituality the the elected relating to the red g?n?tiques the the purpose of investigations cooperation by the police military the Canadian and Nigeria d?sign?es the will have along by the the people , the Canadian juridiction the the code of biochemistry military , the the Canada as the the foreign .
currently , the bill allows the police military to obtain a mandate to the levy of ADN only to the the is the one offence the vice commise the the Canada .
the fact that the police military the date allowed to obtain a mandate to a violation substances commise the the foreign is a net improvement , if the " the fact , the fact that the de4 $ the Canadian the staff military are in service heroic missions to the foreign and that the the Somalia serious involving the the military Canadian . the events in Somalia and the Bosnia - Herz?govine .
as the the case of the provisions current the Canadian Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques , the bill to the S - 10 million that the ?chantillons , the the results of the red will be restored to the commissioner of the preserve Royal the the Canada for the documents in the bank the data .
the new bill includes the the the provisions the will included in the Act , the Defence down , the the authority to inquire of ADN , the benign and the plebiscite of the ?chantillons and the results of childhood genetics , and the protection in the the the policy , the respect to the right to the life private , will identiques the ones who are contained in the Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques .
the fight , they have been adjusted to the context of the system of justice military .
he is important to remind the Canadian Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques contains a list of offenders d?sign?es the 1867 , the individual sentenced to the one of these offences the make the subject of a decision of training g?n?tiques to be the analysis m?dico - 60 .
this list . was divided the two types of offenders : associations and school .
in the case of the heat projects , the ?chantillons are bailed treaties the the time , the condemnation , except in the the case of circumstances exceptional .
the , in the the heat with violence the most serious and the heat the character body , heat that the evidence of the " being genetics can the best ?lucider .
the , " the the heat following : inceste , and the Canadian and for sexual , Charge , 1969 involontaire contempt , sexual army or infliction the l?sions Finland , infliction intentionnelle the l?sions Finland , sexual exploitation , sexual exploitation serious , enl?vement and s?questration .
in the case of the heat high , the levy not . not required .
the fight , the Crown must convince the Krever the the levy of ?chantillons is in the public . the safety public .
he is a the heat the serious the the analysis genetics not be not always be protests to deal of Organized or in anticipation of the .
the , " and other . the " crack the margin , acts of piraterie , put the fact , introduction by effraction in a lengthy criminal , fire criminal , infliction the Canadian death by neglect officers , put the fact , a officer of the peace , maintenance qualified , decision of hostage .
in order to the bill to the S - 10 , this list of law , occur the the , the payroll of ADN the rate now , the members of the staff military who will have burdened to have made . offences .
in a first time , the new bill includes amend the parties of the Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques to be the Canadian and changes made to the Act , the Defence down .
the most , the article 12 , the bill to the rules that , in the five years following the coming to effect of the bill , a committee , the Senate , the Canadian House of the House of Joint audit the one of the the provisions and the the application of the bill .
this same , the well , a report on the dark the Canadian bank the data will report each year by the commissioner of the preserve Royal the the Canada .
he will report before each House of the Parliament in the 15 first day , at the same - the following the reception the the last .
these changes will the effect of the " and concerns of the members of the committee , elongated the the Parliament , to the best educated and the control of the Canadian the bank the data g?n?tiques .
finally , the bill is amended by the bill to the S - 10 to the the Senate clear set the the profiles the identification genetics and the sites Finland Accounts the view of the establishing not be used to the Canadian and for the identification the Canadian transportation convergence .
honourable senators , I wish to point that the bill to the S - 10 requested also many changes to Order technical to make more certain aspects of the Code offence , the the the policy , the application of the Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques .
these changes relationship proposed the " the creation of a group of the federal - provincial the one of office of the in politics the new bank the data g?n?tiques .
the " It meetings , the officials provincial and the areas of the safety public and the Canadian law . stated that the bill currently not the not enough clear in the the the policy , the circumstances , which the one woman . the not to Appear a levy of ADN .
the bill to the S - 10 does the the concerns . 69 clear that a levy not the not to be ordered if the court . informed that the prevalence genetics the Canadian Human drop the very have the Canadian bank the data g?n?tiques .
the most , the bill to the S - 10 million that a judge the one court provincial will be the viserne order or a envelope the levy of ADN the will have made or subpoena in a place in the
finally , the bill to the final many other changes technical , the Code offence for the the system of the levy of sites Finland to emergencies genetics the Canadian and for m?dico - jurisdictional the clarifi? and widened .
in closing , honourable senators , I am pleased to see the new that , through the Canadian resolute the the members of the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional , the Act , the Defence down , the Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques and the Code offence will , the my opinion , and I am sure that you intend to agree with me , contributed am?lior?s by the bill to the S - 10 to respond to the concerns of this chamber on the creation and the management of the new bank national the data g?n?tiques .
as I , I said , the beginning of my speech , he is a the one tool extremely powerful the will the the impact important to our system of justice and the country from the
the provisions of the bill to the S - 10 agreements in the the the right to the life private the the Canadian will more sufficient , balisant the way , specifically to the policiers and the courts the use of profiles g?n?tiques to the the purpose of investigations convergence .
i can you to the the bill to the will the subject of a review serious by the committee for the government that he respond to the concerns ?mises by the members of Commons . there has now year .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , if no other senator . I take the honourable , I further , the prior with the motion .
the Honourable Senator Fraser , seconded by the Honourable Senator Ruck , moved that the bill to the Senate read a second time .
you pleasure , he and the Canadian motion , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed and the bill to the motion read a second time . )
referred to the committee
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . third time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Fraser , the bill to the motion referred to the committee on the Canadian and business legal and constitutionnellles . )
the Act chronic the decision of making medical
second reading of Debate the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Carstairs , seconded by the Honourable Senator pin , seconded the Canadian second reading of the bill to the S - 2 , the chronic the decision of making medical legitimate respect to the treatment of survival and the the treatment of the pain , the third time second time . - (
the Honourable Senator Lavoie - Roux ) .
the Honourable Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , the extent legislation dealing the the issues of life and the death require the the parliamentary a reflection of the most depth .
this is therefore , carefully that I have examined the bill to the S - 2 , the chronic the decision of making medical legitimate respect to the treatment of survival and the the treatment of the pain .
i have consulted the distinguished ?thiciens , the Canadian and the Canadian the Association Catholic Canadian of the health and the Canadian Care - poverty , Dying Coalition / Canadian Coalition Against Euthanasia , which rises a Hamani the organizations diss?min?es in the the country , pr?conisent the field spokesperson , just and respectueux the the availability .
i am also took the my experience personal to the purpose of the study of the bill to the .
the CHST , the I have had the other . the decisions and the make the the recommendations regarding the relevance of ongoing the care medical that actual the the ones ones , due seeks .
i know , experience how he can be difficult to take this kind of the to the professional the Canadian health and the members of the family .
in addition , he is important in the part of a monopoly debate legislative the basis of conviction personal the individual , the the individual having the Hon. Centre within the
i believe firmly in the dignity and the Canadian value does the Canadian Human human .
i believe that all the ones human be a respected , and the , the all the process of the life , the Canadian conception the Canadian death .
in expressing , honourable senators , I am else to the Euthanasia and the the suicide attended because the the average are inconsistent with the dignity human .
the same , I acknowledge the rights legal that the patients . the turn a single and I am , the fact , the Canadian the promotion of the care palliative as a the inevitable the suffering verbal .
the disease , the suffering and the death of the cordial the the experience human .
the act of dying the be the opportunity to a conviction taken the conscience of maintenance the grain to the the people of firm assume and consciemment the Resolution the their lives , and not just a process inexorable which he is the user passivement .
the other hand , the economies scientific and bitter the federal - care of health have improved significantly our ability to soigner the disease , the inevitable the suffering and the banquet the life .
these developments not have not , raised the the issues ?thiques that the corporation . was never had the the question .
he is the the case where extend the life , the the average artificiels is a web burden to the human mourante or the family .
he is necessary to make the one balance between two obligations : the Canadian . not give intentionnellement the death to a person and the Canadian . not taking , for maintaining a person in life , the Canadian and procedures the imposeraient a burden disproportionate by the " and benefits to make the the procedures .
the government . that , I find that the bill to the S - 2 , the Canadian , some aspects positive and some aspects negative .
i support the intent of the bill to the , the motion of the the Ordre surrounding the decision of the end to the life of a person , in particular , permit or the aviation the the treatment , the case afforded , and the use of Veterinary to satisfy the pain .
he is legal and moral that a soignant lactation the the Bureau to satisfy the pain the one person whose the life is the declining , the so . Miller seasons the abr?ger the life of the human , the , the condition that the intent not be not the cow the death .
the Senate , the Prime the the fact that some coping entrepreneurial the agency enough to dispense to satisfy the pain by fear of the criminellement did , the bill to the motion of the positive .
the inclusion in the bill to the Canadian a clause making the health Canada essentially the the lines guidelines Finance respect to the forbearance and the the aviation the the traitemen , injury the professional the Canadian health and enhance their education . the the concerns of treatment of the pain and the care palliative and the Canadian the research on the fr?quence the forbearance or the aviation the the treatment is a place to positive .
the present the us we set the need to protect the coping the wish do inevitable the pain of the patients , we must ensure the the the this bill to the so it is agreed , not be not a supplementary Chair . the Euthanasia direct , l?galis?e .
this is that the redoute the fray national to the life , the very the bill to the as a first , to the creation of a request in the area of the assistance to the suicide .
honourable senators , is the dilemma which we are facing .
how the course , the act medical soulage indeed , pain , the the the Senate can the abr?ger the life ?
how to the one patient not the not been submitted , the the pressure to the the magnitude of treatment ?
this basis become a the use based in the case where he not show not the declining the death ?
in some words , would the us on the point of governing the integrity of the life , which , in our education . legislators , we are held in concert the greatest of our commitment legitimate the inevitable the pain ?
is so , the the tort a review thorough in committee on the so , bill to the just the bitter the reading of the second reading .
the my opinion , we should give the " that this .
the question deserves the us put the effort to develop a good editorial the bill in the public . all the Canadian .
the the the text . duty not the Code offence , I believe that the the not to the " in doing the provisions prevented the Euthanasia and the suicide attended .
however , in the wording present , no . redistribute that is that it . the .
the question deserves a new and the one more ample reflection .
he appropriate to make the Canadian Human the reason , is the reference to the article 2 . the human the the Late is ongoing and certainty .
he not be not omettre the the extent , the the not . not the case , this .
if the intent of the l?gislateur is the inevitable the suffering of a individual departments of a preventable virtuellement mortelle , the the the Senate clear indicated in the text .
i move , the Canadian the study in committee , the Senate brought a change appropriate to this section , followed the changes corr?latives .
honourable senators , he is also the council that he is the Canadian and fairest establish a danger of death , not have not 2.4 the one century imminente and certainty .
he is the Canadian many conditions deplore and the long term , not intimidated not necessarily the life in danger .
a diab?tique the fact , although diab?tique the opposite to a condition d?l?t?re , but the death . is never imminente or inexorable .
the most , a person who is supposed be in due seeks , the doctor the one aging column or the Canadian condition , worsening not . not suited in a situation d?l?t?re , and the bill to the should the extent clear .
the the moment , I venture the principle recommendation that a person who has the " the threat of a death imminente and certainty the right to the break the the suffering and that the doctor or the infirmi?re the load , the suffering . should not be passible the court .
however , we do we not raise the door to the Euthanasia direct .
he is the government that he not there was not a bad interpretation of the real the Canadian the bill to the .
i urge the Senate to act of the diligente in this matter .
in response to the question that I , I expressed when it has opened the debate in paragraph reading , the senator Carstairs , deliberately the cat?chisme the the Church Catholic as follows :
the so , died . considered as imminente , the care ongoing related to a person patient not have the legitimately aborted .
the use of the analg?siques to ease the suffering of the moribond , the " the risk of abr?ger the day , the be morally consistent the Canadian dignity human if the death . is not deal , or as it do as a -
this or , honourable senators , is worthwhile , but memories of the the it is rement by the statement next :
what the in the the grounds and the average , the Euthanasia direct is the end of the Canadian life of the disabled , ill or ill .
it is morally petition .
i am sure that the unissant their efforts , the honourable can write a bill , help to maintain the dignity and the rights of a patient the Canadian death is imminente and certainty and that the standards professional the one professional the Canadian health .
honourable senators , the bill to the us , the the opportunity to strengthen the support the the program of care palliative the the Canada .
the good health care . regarding the burden the suffering and the latest the quality of life of the people who live with a medical avanc?e or the in raising .
renfor?ons the need growing the the Canada .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Roche , the the name of the senator Lavoie - Roux , the debate is adjourned . )
business legal and Constitutional
motion requesting the authority to use of documents and evidence collected in the the examination of the bill to the previous to the study of the bill to the present , Stands the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Oliver , seconded by the Honourable Senator Di Nino :
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the Committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the the years of the study of the Bill C S - 17 , the Act , Code offence respect to the victim criminal and the Canadian and concerns related , the Canadian the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament , that removal the the committee , when he will have set , for the present study of the bill to the S - 6 . - (
the Honourable Senator Cools ) .
the Honourable Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I believe that the senator Oliver is the the outset and that he will take the honourable the the subject .
i had stated that I , c?derais my time , honourable .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , in the absence of the senator Oliver and the government . the time , I move that this issue , surgeons to the the the the Senate available .
the senator Cools :
honourable senators , we , we refer this issue of the name of the senator Oliver ?
i wish to the adjournment in the name .
a vote :
the .
the senator Cools :
some of the wishes if this issue will let .
a vote :
Inscrivez - the in the case , your on Social
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , the question . " be ready for the the senator Oliver . is not here .
the senator Cools would stand the question .
the senator Cools :
honourable senators , I believe that the Leader of the senator Oliver , the bloodstream . After the , the the the I had the , I , c?dais the honourable .
( the debate is stands . )
leave to the committee , using the documents and evidence collected in the the examination of the bill to the previous to the study of the bill to the present
the Honourable Joan Fraser , in Conformity with the moved 17 November 99 , moved :
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the Committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the the years of the study of the Bill C C - 69 , the Act , the Act , lots judicial and a place . in determining , the Canadian the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament , that removal the the committee for the present study of the bill to the C - 7 .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate . adjourned . the traditional 23 November 99 , the 14 at the motion
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 10
the traditional 23 November 99
the Honourable Rose - Marie Losier - Cool , Speaker Pro tempore
table of the dumping
Maxwell Tabled '
the Late the Laurence Decore
the Late the Delia Grey
the examination of the political foreign the the Canada
the fifth anniversary of the tabling of the report final the the committee Joint Special
the political the mental sterilization the the farmers ukrainiens in the kolkhozes agricultural the the former - Ata Soviet
business routine
the adjournment
bill to the Canadian and the implementation of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
first Reading
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary the the Council of the European the the 21 May 1998 - Report of the report of the delegation Canadian
agenda of the Assembly Parliamentary the the Council of the European held the 18 June and the the 21 , the 25 June 99 - Report of the report of the delegation Canadian
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary the the Council of the European held in the 20 , the 25 September 1998 - Report of the report of the delegation Canadian
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary the the Council of the European held the 25 August 99 - Report of the report of the delegation Canadian
agriculture and Forestry
notice of Motion During the committee to study of the present and the prospects of future of the Agriculture
notice of Motion During the committee to study of the present and the prospects of future of the forestry
notice of Motion During the committee to engage the the staff and the the place
notice of Motion During the committee to allow the premature the the deliberations
aboriginal Peoples
commission Royal the the Aboriginal Peoples , Notice of Motion During the committee to study of recommendations respect to the basis government aboriginal and the ports , quiet received and the evidence heard during the first session
Maxwell Questions Tabled
privileges , Standing and Orders
leave to the committee , sitting , the time that the Senate , " being of the meetings
the work
the situation critical the the fault - free - Government Position of the government
the fishery and the Oceans
the provinces Maritimes - Effect Particulars the Canadian decision of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of Fisheries and the aboriginal
the business Indian and the North Canadian
the provinces marine - Effect Particulars the Canadian decision of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of Fisheries and the aboriginal - Effect , the the Minister
the business foreign
the Sudan - Conformity role of the corporation Talisman Offshore - Government Position of the government on the Opposition of the plateforme the Canadian Transportation human and the interests of the investors
the Finance
the political the the government on the increase the the rate of the
the business Intergovernmental
the conditions of a next referendum Quebec - Government Position of the government
the Defence down
the lobbying white the 1994 - Government Policy the the government
the replacement of the squirrel the helicopters Sea King
the former Veterans
the study on the institutions of health - Conformity influence the the report of the subamendment , the Canadian the Senate
the business foreign
the Kosovo - Conformity the government
the Program of free of pages with the House of the House
on business orders
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
second reading of Debate the the debate
bill to the Canadian 99 on the implementation of the Canadian taxation tax
second reading of Debate the the debate
the speech , the Throne
motion of the Canadian the Adresse the answer to Continued the the debate
business legal and Constitutional
leave to the committee , using the documents and evidence collected in the the examination of the bill to the previous to the study of the bill to the present
business Social , Science and Technology
motion During the committee to study of facts new the the Euthanasia and the assistance to the suicide - Adjourned the the debate
banks and Commerce
leave to the committee , to the situation . the system fiscal domestique and international
the Senate
the traditional 23 November 99
the Chair . Chair . p.m. at the the Speaker pro tempore the " the Chair .
prayers .
the Late the Laurence Decore
the Late the Delia Grey
the Honourable Thelma J . Chalifoux :
Delia Grey is her in the North the the Alberta , 1917 , but the aspirations in the region . snow - LaChance .
Martin Decore is unborn the Vegreville , in Alberta , in 1940 and the aspirations the Vegreville , Ottawa and Edmonton .
these two leaders have borrowed the the sentiers different certainly , but , each of the manner , they have contributed to the best , the Canadian and aboriginal Peoples and the the new came to the are gers here for ourselves their dreams .
Martin has been a member loyalist the the Liberal Party of the Alberta and the the Canada , the fought for the right and the possibility of all of the part of the fragments Canadian .
Delia the summer a citizen loyal and caring the Canadian nation her and the the Canada , the vast , 50 to the M and the Aboriginal the the First Nations to the one , so heavily their dreams and to the Canadian the fragments Canadian .
the challenges the the two people have known internationally with courage are too many of the flag all this , but I atteste the honourable , honourable senators , the Canadian , the the changes to the summer upon possible , the the implementation of these people and the their lives of devotion alluded to the service of their fellow .
they wisdom , and kindness and their slander will regrett?es by all those and all those who are the ripe the their road , but the heritage that they are finding the perp?tuera in our children and our history .
we should celebrate their lives and anglophones the rest that we have had the the Province all of the
they are miss .
the examination of the political foreign the the Canada
the fifth anniversary of the tabling of the report final the the committee Joint Special
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , the months , this real the fifth anniversary of the tabling of the report final the the committee Joint Review the the examination of the political foreign the the Canada .
this report contained in the one cinquantaine the recommendations regarding the the issues as CTAISB the Canadian contribution to the development sustainable , the strengthening of the safety common in passing by the renewal of the assistance international .
in a letter that I adressais the the Minister of the Foreign Affairs , the Honourable Lloyd Axworthy , the 2,500 November the , I told the the Minister of the " on the the the government concrete steps by the Department has the tabling of the report .
the have more from a response , he appert that the deterioration of the Finance public . significantly reduced the assistance surprises Canadian , the country . " the development .
while the the committee recommended the stabilization the budget , the assistance public , the development , 0,7p. per - the GDP , the ratio is spent the 0,45p. per the 1991 , 0,26p. per to the fiscal fiscal 1998 - 2000 .
a second aspect sir , the committee was the promotion and the rayonnement the Canadian Industrial and the the knowledge Canadian .
this is the first time that a review as serious about the the subject .
the Canada . found the parent poor , if the " Do the City investment made to the chapter by the government ' .
in uncertainty a response to the Minister , the " will the assessment the work of the Department of the Foreign Affairs , the years of the five years in the I want to the work conducted work by the committee .
the political the mental sterilization the the farmers ukrainiens in the kolkhozes agricultural the the former - Ata Soviet
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , he is the $ 67 years , a grand terrible and very sad the difference for the Canadian life of the people Baltic .
this is the 1932 - 1933 that the Leader Soviet Joseph Stalin , in the Canadian contraindre the $ the farmers ukrainiens the move the the Agriculture collective Soviet , the report , the way d?moniaque , several tactics to the businesses a genocide policy .
he has passed the the government such as the increase the the quota the Blood c?r?alier the Ukraine the completion per , to the jobs . shortfall hostages the Food and the tools the inability of the paysans ukrainiens the the paying , the implementation of the Canadian a system of passeports international destined to limit the travelling the the Ukrainiens the Canadian research , food , the enforcement of the human surprise to take or the severity of the Food in a kolkhoze , the persecution of thousands of scholarly , the Institut and the leaders ukrainiens and the assaut the the assistance of tanks and the Transferred the villages habit?s by the the farmers . Defence .
this is the that the few of acknowledgement of the government policies horribles taken by the Leader Soviet Joseph Stalin and the Hon. the Canadian labour Lazar Kaganovich the view of sky the political the methods of the Ukraine .
despite the efforts payments efforts to hide or effacer the atrocity the this genocide policy , the the scholars awards have gained the the evidence concrete the basis of compliance the $ 10 million the number of victims of the genocide .
he is unfortunate that the world greatness not be not found or the the magnitude of the genocide when the Union Soviet there are .
the leaders current the the Kremlin , recognized that event historic atrocious , the last must be understood and comm?mor? .
he wrote :
this is my I would be morning - that was the prosecutors that he not there has not the words , the poll .
they had been made to the pi?ge and caught each child , the die the hunger , pursuant to a decision policy decision in a much . remote , around the tables the conference and the banquet .
they not had the not the U the the in?vitabilit? to occur the horror .
i know that the honourable in this chamber . the ardents advocates of the case of the rights of the human and that the Canadian dignity and the Canadian value of all the ones human .
i would encourage the , honourable senators , the honourable join the night , the Congress Slovak Canadian and the the group of friendship Canada - Ukraine to the matter tribute to the victims of the genocide by the genocide orchestr? the Ukraine the 1932 - 1933 .
you have received a notice of your offices , but I would remind the this event will be the night , 1998 at 1:30 in the Victoria the the Centre , Le 237 - C .
i am sure that the honourable senators profiteront the this opportunity to the honour to the victims of the genocide .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , and notwithstanding the article 58 ( 1 ) at ) the the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate . stand today , the the remaining adjourned until the near , the 1998 24 November 99 , the 13 at 1:30 .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
bill to the Canadian and the implementation of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
first Reading
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore informed the Senate that he has received the the Commons . message informed the the bill to the C - 4 , the fact the in the Canadian the Agreement agreement between the government . the Canada , the governments of the members of the Agency spatiale European , the government . the Japan , the government . the Federation of Russia and the government . the United - United the North the Canadian cooperation respecting the Canadian Station spatiale international civil and retired the the changes related to the other Acts .
( the bill to the motion read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . second time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Hays , the second reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the Chair placed 25 November 99 . )
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary the the Council of the European the the 21 May 1998 - Report of the report of the delegation Canadian
the Honourable Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the honour to table the Prime report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe , the delegation Canadian , the meeting held the 21 May 1998 , Paris , in France , the Canadian Wheat the the Environment , the the Land the the land and the the powers local the the Council of the European .
agenda of the Assembly Parliamentary the the Council of the European held the 18 June and the the 21 , the 25 June 99 - Report of the report of the delegation Canadian
the Honourable Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the honour to table the second report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe , the delegation Canadian , the committee , the commission of the issues economic and the the development of the Assembly Parliamentary the the Council of the European held in the Senate . the Organization of cooperation and the development economic ( OECD ) , the Paris , the 18 June , and that the Canadian session plenary the the Assembly Parliamentary the the Council of the European held in Strasbourg , in France , the the 21 , the 25 June 99 .
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary the the Council of the European held in the 20 , the 25 September 1998 - Report of the report of the delegation Canadian
the Honourable Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the honour to table the third report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe , the delegation canadienne? the session plenary the the Assembly Parliamentary the the Conseilde the European held in Strasbourg , in France , the the 20 Parliamentary September 1998 .
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary the the Council of the European held the 25 August 99 - Report of the report of the delegation Canadian
the Honourable Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the honour to table the fourth report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe , the delegation Canadian , the meeting of the committee Standing the the parliamentary the Canadian initiatives arctique held the 25 August 99 the Mourmansk , in Russia .
agriculture and Forestry
notice of Motion During the committee to study of the present and the prospects of future of the Agriculture
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , I give notice that colloquium will , the 24 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian the Agriculture and the the forestry the power to study of the present and the prospects of future of the Agriculture , the Canada ; and
that the Committee examine the " the most final 29 June 2001 .
notice of Motion During the committee to study of the present and the prospects of future of the forestry
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , I give notice that colloquium will , the 24 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian the Agriculture and the the forestry the power to study of the present and the prospects of future of the forestry the the Canada ; and
that the Committee examine the " the most final 29 June 2001 .
notice of Motion During the committee to engage the the staff and the the place
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , I give notice that colloquium will , the 24 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian the Agriculture and the the forestry the technical , clerical and services of counsel , clerical , clerical the board or other elements necessary to examine the bills of the , the substance of the Canadian law and the Estimates budget , he have been providing ; and
that the Committee be authorized to the place to adjourn the Canada and the the foreign to the purpose of such reviews .
notice of Motion During the committee to allow the premature the the deliberations
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , I give notice that colloquium will , the 24 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian the Agriculture and the the forestry the technical , to the heading the the deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible . the .
aboriginal Peoples
commission Royal the the Aboriginal Peoples , Notice of Motion During the committee to study of recommendations respect to the basis government aboriginal and the ports , quiet received and the evidence heard during the first session
the Honourable Charlie Watt :
honourable senators , I give notice that colloquium , the 24 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian and aboriginal Peoples be authorized to do a study and the present a report on the recommendations of the board Royal the the Aboriginal Peoples ( Document parlementaireno 2 / 35 - 508 ) the " the basis government aboriginal and the particular , the information the point of the Canadian and aboriginal Peoples and the the other sponsors the the issues should :
2 . the statutory to the the comptrollership the the new relations structurelles ;
3 . the models of self government aboriginal to the answer to the needs of the Aboriginal Peoples and the concorder with the new relations structurelles ;
that the briefs received and the evidence heard the Canadian . the the committee on the Canadian and aboriginal Peoples during the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament be providing the the committee ;
that the committee tabled the report final the the most final 16 d 99 , and that the committee divested the powers necessary to the premature the the results of the study content in the report final and the date , the 24 December 1998 ; and
that the committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practical consequently , the table the report of the the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate . " no , and that obedience report be deposited have brought to the Senate .
Maxwell Questions Tabled
privileges , Standing and Orders
leave to the committee , sitting , the time that the Senate , " being of the meetings
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , my question . question to the senator Austin , the Canadian the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules .
in the Journals of the Senate . the 18 November , the Canadian page 128 , the senator pin , the the name of the senator Austin , the proposed , seconded by the senator Jeffrey , the motion implies :
that the Committee on the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules the power to sit in December at 1:30 the duration , the so , the Senate , the date , the end of December 1998 , to the the Committee be to the issues of privilege -
honourable senators , I have received today , a person of the Order .
the exp?diteur not . not East , but I know that he the the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules and the the Whole today , the the lines November , the 16 at 1:30 . Cinq the listed the the Order of the Order , the four not have no , the with the question of privilege .
the Senate . authorized the committee to sit in concomitance only to the the so to the issues of privilege .
the Chair of the committee could the it is to the the UN the the subject and ensure the the the the instructions of the Senate that observed by the biblical ?
the Honourable Jack Austin :
honourable senators , the Order of the Order of the committee has been directed by the Clerk of the committee and I do the I made my that the afternoon .
i can assure the honourable that we commencerons by the question of privilege raised by the senator Andreychuk , followed the same subsidies by the senator Kinsella .
however , I had hoped that we could take a Hamani the seconds the country . the following the afternoon to Authorize the risks to the rights in the the concerns of the motion by the Church morave the North .
no one of the committee . having the problem . the respect .
the Church morave the North the downswing the rights , the opportunity to the last session and welcome to the so . rights were the lifetime .
the committee will then free of license exclusively the the issues of privilege before the return to the House of the Canadian and guidelines .
the work
the situation critical the the fault - free - Government Position of the government
the Honourable Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators , the the question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the Canadian and information , the cabinet at the one came providing a difference of 1,2 billion . $ oude 200 million . $ by the to fight against the itin?rance .
the spring the , the government has demonstrated the Canadian Minister of the Labour the mandate of dollars a solution and it was supposed develop a strategy in the months following .
this was the spring the .
the winter Strike the our doors .
the Leader of the government can the the " to the Senate when exactly the cabinet will be the present a plan Covenant the the itin?rance and the the end of the ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
i thank the Honourable Senator the have asked this issue .
this is clearly , with the present the the ensuing serious across the the country and the the many Main the attention of the government .
the Minister of the Labour the motion d?plac?e the one end to the other . the country to seek the bridges the government . the appointees and the information their true regarding the enforcement of the mandate .
as the Middle the honourable senators , for the " telling the the problem , he is , he will presumably the the resources additional .
the resources necessary will move the the part of the process budget normal .
the senator Cohen :
honourable senators , I am well , the armed the the number of miles that the Minister has parcourus in the country .
i wish to remind the the honourable senators , the need to address this , before the Canadian wonders begin to pick .
why no plan not the the more . adopted , in November , in the Canadian ensure the the shelters to the winter ?
the senator Boudreau :
i do I do let the the honourable senators , feeling that no action . will agreed that Winter .
i believe that , honourable senators , the " is at the side , the motion of the important , the summer raised by the Minister of the Labour , and I am eagerly the the the Canadian and the so that cuts the little .
the fishery and the Oceans
the provinces Maritimes - Effect Particulars the Canadian decision of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of Fisheries and the aboriginal
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , I have a question to question to the Leader of the government to the Senate on the case Marshall .
the Minister of visible that the decision original the the place to a confusion .
in spite of the clarification the people were shocking , the Minister of the Foreign Indian , Robert Nault , affecting , the the rights aboriginal derogate the treaty . apply to the resources natural .
the Leader of the government to the Senate is aware of the consequences of this decision or the this position .
the Minister put the the " the Senate , the motion . the Government of the government also ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
the I , the judges the said that they wished that their judgment , applies to the issues , and the summer recognize and that they not , not prepared to the Consolidated the application in the other areas .
i do believe that the people have excluded the other audited .
they will have born?s the " that he not done . , by extrapolation , and their decision to the the circumstances , the ones who are concerned by the .
the the time at the the government . consistent the the judgment , and the definitions that the Court Supreme the scope will the one of Necessary to the discussions , are in the and the , namely , the , adjacent the the results positive .
the business Indian and the North Canadian
the provinces marine - Effect Particulars the Canadian decision of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of Fisheries and the aboriginal - Effect , the the Minister
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , as the Leader of the government to the Senate . know , the Minister Nault the attempted the wishes in the process and the the end of known to the international national - and I picked my words with route - in the , insinuant the - be a little too .
the the the the the fund the impression that the cabinet support the idea that the judgment spread the right ancestral the number of resources , and the the the the Leader of the Canadian table of the cabinet , he convey the - be to understand the the chamber . the cabinet the the then 74 the the not the clone of Doug Young and the investigator the the follow the Canadian Position of the cabinet .
the problems . aggraveront in the region . the Atlantic , the clone - and I ultimately , " with route - Chiasson in the seaway the Canadian destruction of the resources of the region . the Atlantic .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I hope that the senator Comeau I pardonnera if I greetings the feeling General to the Minister of the the words , the most moderate .
i do I do , directly to the , but the Minister wants the - be the the entire the question aboriginal is the vast and not to cut not to a private particular , the resources .
i believe that the definitions brought by the Court Supreme the motion disinfection to the deal . the Organization a problem . immediate in the area of the fishery .
i hope that the the " go to deal of the when the Ontario , the government in the federal brings the various parts interested the the world . the fishery , there was the representatives aboriginal in the region . the Atlantic .
he is hope that this may well augurer the Canadian academic the other problems in abeyance the the aboriginal .
the business foreign
the Sudan - Conformity role of the corporation Talisman Offshore - Government Position of the government on the Opposition of the plateforme the Canadian Transportation human and the interests of the investors
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
it is the in fact , a question that I have raised the week , the the Honourable Minister of the corporation Talisman Offshore , the Calgary .
this morning , the Canadian coverage outrage continue to the situation indicates that the the shareholders of Talisman , including a group as the the fund . mutual and the the fund . Plan , congr?gations religious , which reflected been a year , the corporation to the it deals the consequences Social and economic the the presence in the Sudan .
in a section released today , in the meaning to Opinions the Canadian the Globe and Mail , Tim Ryan , a priest Catholic the motion for long actionnaire the Talisman , detailed the efforts efforts to pressure this society . energy , and that all the companies Canadian , the responsibilities the role of stakeholders did in the economy and the feasibility a criminal the the rights of the human .
the government is the the loan to protect the interests of the shareholders Canadian , the mission of inquiry as attendue indicates that the presence of Talisman EnergyInc. the the Sudan contributes directly to the upcoming the the rights of the human in the country ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
i am confident the the make .
as the knowledge , the government ' will the the government to protect the shareholders , I do I do some of understanding that the the Honourable Senator committed by the .
the the looking I give more of clarification on the kind of the the the U update , I could be the be the giving a response .
the senator Oliver :
SelonM. Ryan in the article the the Globe and Mail , the chairman of Talisman would the " to Pourquoi we ? "
this , what the ever ENAP Ryan , a group of shareholders would bring :
... the the us asking the Talisman we attempting systematically the the information of all the companies : a criminal the conduct exhaustive covering the rights signed the Canadian Human and that the standards interprovincial the federal social , environmental and the work , the the rep?res documentation allowing the effectiveness of respect to the commitments and a system of auditing credible the the return to the corporation .
the senator Boudreau :
in the the concerns of society , the I have already said , the honourable senators , if the inquiry confirmed the very serious allegations the it is the subject , he is clear that he would affect the other . the government , this last , or against the other company the creative in a situation similar .
in the the concerns of the government specific that the government . the Canada could take the the name of the shareholders to protect their interests financial or to Appear the Canadian society . to some measures , I do know , not to the fair . the proposed the senator .
the senator Oliver :
the shareholders the said that some measures that they would be to ensure the protection of the rights of the human and the other rights . , crowded in the the conventions approved the the plan international , as the Declaration Universal the the rights of the man , the conventions the Geneva , the conventions the the Organization international the the work and the Convention of the United respecting the the rights of the child .
they perform the members Province of Tax and statements the the Canada is signatory .
the senator Boudreau :
in the the the policy , the actions of the corporation that is that , we must emphasize the the respect to some standards of conduct .
the allegations reviewers the serious questions , and other , if this society . did or not these facilities .
if a commission and a report indicate that it is the the not the , the government giving the other . the government , it .
i believe that he settled is the " the honest to the shareholders of properly the this way .
that some shareholders smoke or not the giving some guidelines to the board of the , the government . the Canada does establishing the inquiry to the the end and , the government . the findings of this inquiry , he comprehensive the other , the Protocol , the corporation .
the Finance
the political the the government on the increase the the rate of the
the Honourable David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , the rate of the people slowly increased . the months , the the time when the Bank of the Canada attempts the juguler the inflation .
he is asix years , the lines September 1993 , the Globe and Mail reported that , the the " the the Opposition the the Liberal Party , Jean Chr , a government Liberal say , the Governor of the Bank of the Canada , John Crow , the region . the great attention to the creation of jobs , the the place . the lurch obs?der by the inflation .
when the the the requested that the the smaller 10,000 Crow not the not the agreement , Mr. Chr the answer : " " you say that he is a Nobel the the government . "
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , our government has always did the role of the Governor of the Bank of the Canada .
this , the us we should the Governor Thiessen .
i think that he has succeeded the way remarkable the same the balance wanted .
while the the events in the other regions of the world . pr?cipitaient , he has been in the Canadian maintain the Cape and , in the , the jobs . unkind the the fishing the country economy . " a good growth and the objective of rBGH the one pace remarkable .
our rate of rBGH the summer almost , leaving in the important , the the great country industrialized .
the senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , I , land , the us should as that the comments of the Prime Minister of the subject of the Governor of the Bank of the Canada . the the the the remarks on the GST .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I do jouais not a role active in the time , the Governor Crow , but it makes a balanced the way different the the circumstances .
when he is a the basis , the rate of the are the one of appropriate , it depends . the Canadian unkind economic , the time , that the
if the economy . the well - that is the " - that the it is the full time , expansion - while the the motion ? - be appropriate to have a rate different the the the the would the period of recession .
the rate of rBGH real the the economy . was the close to per cent of the years of the four months trimestres and the rules maintain a strong growth .
the growth of the Canada , among the country . the G - 7 and the the world industrialis? , not . d?pass?e that the same the the United - United .
honourable senators , I do I speak to the character appropriate to some rate of the " some periods .
i would be the the Governor of the Bank of the Canada .
i think that he gets a job remarkable .
the business Intergovernmental
the conditions of a next referendum Quebec - Government Position of the government
the Honourable Jean - Claude Rivest :
honourable senators , what are the death of the government , in the the concerns of the Canadian the next referendum the the Quebec - the in souhaitant that he not there , will not ?
is the the the the Minister could tell this chamber . the decisions the people were taken by the government , the this regard ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the entire clearly , he not . not in the public . the government . facilitate the meeting of a place referendum .
however , he is the some principles that agreeable the majority of the Canadian and that the House of the government and , probably , the most of the honourable .
first , if ever the , the one referendum , he will insist on the clarity .
the clarity will exig?e to the question to question . " that the the results of the plebiscite .
in the , this opinion is a part extremely important to the decision .
the other principle of the Canadian most of the Canadian . the agreement - and the motion of our the Canadian Position dugouvernement - the the motion that the Parliament of the Canada is to the word " that the the respect to this issue .
the separation not cannot be the question exclusive the one in the
this is a question , I have the and the other parliamentary .
the statutory supplied the application of these principles are now , the Canadian a debate .
however , we can point that , first , the clarity is essential and , second , the separation is the case of the Parliament of the Canada and the the Canadian , and the Canadian a single province .
the senator Rivest :
when the Minister of Beauchesne that the Parliament of the Canada is being Donations , if the the " the House of the House and the Senate ?
in the spirit and the one of the government , is the the the the Universit the the government , is in the words of the process referendum the - the , as the clarity of the question and the majority massive ?
what is the opinion of the Minister ?
the senator Boudreau :
the honourable senators , extended to speak their positions , and the will the same time , a the the process .
the Court Supreme the said , applicable that the problems of lacked , the Canadian . and the results , whatever the government , and all the governments provincial .
the senator Rivest :
the the country , in the drafting or the formulation of the question , the in the majority of the findings , the be necessary .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , in the two , the question , the clarity is important .
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I hear someone that the deed .
the Minister , the the name of the government , we said that the Parliament of the Canada will the word " that the Canadian formulation of the question and the Canadian determination of the percentage of the Hon. the
in the , the two Houses of the Parliament initiatives to the process referendum if the Quebec wants to be a referendum .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the Honourable Leader of the Opposition widening a little too , import the my comments .
i have said that the government . the Canada is to the the process , the the moon the Court Supreme .
when I say , the government . the Canada , the that includes the the Senate .
as the Canadian lacked , I believe that the government . the Canada and the province , because sure the the discussions .
in the , the the governments of the provinces , directly in the biological to the the discussions .
the nature specific the the process will determined to the years of the weeks and the the months , in the
the the time , I do would not prepared to describe the detail the nature exactly the this instance .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
i specific respectfully that the Court Supreme the the Canada . the not ordered to the government . the Canada . to what the the Senate and that it is the not realized the judgment .
it has given a difference transmission , over the significance of the three issues domain in the Committee of the government . the Canada .
the Minister point here . policy government , the fact , the Canadian discussions and the remaining cause .
this is my hear , the motion that the person include , in a certain the , a response Parliamentary and self in the process preparatory the the plebiscite on the future of the Quebec , the " the public . the Confederation , the " the foreign the same - the , before the meeting of the plebiscite if ever the the place .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I can assure the the Honourable Senator that , when the maritime the meeting of a referendum , the government . the Canada . False not inactif , to the the process or comment the nature of the question .
the Defence down
the lobbying white the 1994 - Government Policy the the government
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the book white the Canadian Defence of 1994 , he is taken the Government clear the the government by the " and the inclusion the Defence ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , if the senator wishes to intent that some evidence particular , technical , in the political the the government , I am happy to speak to obtain the the this information .
the senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , the the victims of my leader , I read the Canadian statement initiated that some changes made to the political the Defence of the Canada . fellow inaper?ues .
i must say , in the elements , the I am interested the rather close to this policy .
the Leader of literature the honourable the the left the the opinion that I plaisante .
suppose that the the changes have been made to the political been his report . there has five years .
i quote a quote learned of the page 50 of the document , the "
the the options and the the plans will therefore immediately d?finis the view of the in service of new armoured the one price affordable , the chamber , the year 2 per .
the year 2000 . in five weeks .
the book white the summer released the , the $ 5 years .
what is the Government of the Canada , report , the replacement of the helicopters ?
the political the country , the it took ?
the motion ? the not at the Government of the government . the Canada ?
the senator Boudreau :
as the the aircraft Sea King are the Honourable Senator the interest particularly , I do then , informing the the I have said in the past .
they remain the priority The a the the Minister of the National .
the Minister of readiness the matter , and we hope that the the announcements the make the one future future .
the replacement of the squirrel the helicopters Sea King
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , he is the somewhat time , a statement of need to the baggage .
in the , the document was the baggage the the cancellation of the market . acquisition of the EH - 101 .
we told now that this statement of the needs . refait surface .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , we know , the following the information that the senator Forrestall , His the the attention of the Senate , the the things have boug? in the program of Alternative the the Sea King .
it testimony , the the the the main , the the fact that the Minister of the National top a high priority to this issue and that he will be made clear as the possible .
as I , I have said , I will know the decision to the Senate as the I , whatever .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , the period of the issues of 30 minutes . the fragments .
the leave is the it leave of pursuing , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the former Veterans
the study on the institutions of health - Conformity influence the the report of the subamendment , the Canadian the Senate
the Honourable Consiglio Di Nino :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the early this year , the committee on the Canadian and former Veterans the product a report Lorne the Canadian health of the former Veterans .
this report . was applauded and seconded by the honourable senators , the course , but also by the the people foreign to the Senate .
we believe this is Mr. Baker , the Minister of the Subcommittee Veterans , the possible to both the study such a the same topic .
is the the that a governing the the opinion that the Minister has the the excellent work . the the committee on the motion ? the first simply that the Department of unemployed the money and to permit a study the the previous was made to defend the money that the taxpayers . low win ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the Minister know very well , the committee on the Canadian the good work .
the person assume that the report of the Senate will the Canadian and records the countries , fondera the decisions that he will take .
the entire clearly , he finds necessary to ask the Hon. Department of the one another of the but I do think that the the necessity , lies that he not confer any credit to the work . the the Senate .
the senator Di Nino :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate , the suggested that the Minister Baker the person - be seen the report of the Senate .
the the the view , yes , but ? If he not the the not seen , the Leader of the government to the Senate might - the the in the attention copy as tomorrow morning ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , he is clear that I speak to the question to the Minister Baker .
the the not the not yet copy of the report , I , in remettrai a " the first opportunity .
the business foreign
the Kosovo - Conformity the government
the Honourable Nicholas W . Taylor :
honourable senators , I have a question to question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
this will soon the winter the the Kosovo , as this , the .
we have spent the the hundreds of $ the $ the destroy the superstructure the the Kosovo .
the hunger , the cold and the lack of electrical threaten the many people .
that the the government ' s help to provide food and warmth the the two camps the the are against the this part troubl?e the the world ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the government ' the motion committed to provide the the assistance as economic that humanitarian the the Kosovo .
in the , the assistance announced recently totalise that 180 million . $ .
the 30 October , the the announcement that a significant the 65 million . $ would lib?r?e by the University of the CIDA , dont35 million for the assistance humanitarian , 10 million for the assistance economic and 20 million for the pacification and the floor of emergency .
the 1 November , the the more announced a balancing Supplementary the 112 million . $ , the 40,000 million . the CIDA , 15 million for the assistance economic , 25 million , the through the the CIDA to create a workshop sure and strong the peace , 20 million for the floor of the community , et12 million for the program Canadian of support the Canadian training regional .
finally , the 17 November , the the announcement 3,7 million . $ additional to the assistance humanitarian and economic and the the Organization international to the migrations .
we suivrons the situation . in the
the senator Taylor :
honourable senators , the government think it to send a part of our surplus food , for which our farmers . touch not a compensation asset , the Canadian and regions of the world who , the one more a need to us ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the question , the that the fact , the no - and midterm existing that I have mentioned .
however , I put certainly the question to the Minister .
the Program of free of pages with the House of the House
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , I wish wish to welcome to a page of the House of the House of amendments to a free with the Senate .
it is called Cynara Corbin .
it is Erin the Dollard - aboriginal - Ormeaux , the the Quebec , and at the criminology the Canadian Faculty of the Science Social the the University of Ottawa .
on business orders
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
second reading of Debate the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Kirby , seconded by the Honourable Senator Lewis , seconded the Canadian second reading of the bill to the C - 6 , the motion to facilitate and the use of Trade Ministerial the virtue of information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of the coverage to bring or put the the information and the the sophisticated and the Act , the Act , and the the Canada , the Act , the Statutory Instruments and the Act , the review of the legislation .
the Honourable Wilbert J . Keon :
honourable senators , I wish to the the opportunity to do some brief comments on the bill to the C - 6 .
this is a bill to the extremely necessary to the support with enthusiasm , the in the few scientists .
i hostility . the need to do some brief comments on the bill to the prior to the Senate referred to a committee .
since I years , the ability to the Canada . In , the deficit , the fusionner , the transfer and the use of the information . is substantially percent .
he , result that the the information , the kind circulent in the country , and the world , the Canadian planet , with the Canadian freedom and the speed that have before .
certainly , the Friends of our ability to this regard another of the benefits , but it is the remaining not least , the question of the cueillette , the Canadian disclosure and the the use of the information raises a number of the concerns related to their accuracy private and recorded .
honourable senators , the the image , the bill to the C - 6 , for the Canadian protect the information personal collected by the area private and , in the , the us to the minority the progress of the technology .
since 1982 , the Act , the protection of the life private protects the information personal held by the government , the
the provinces , are pourvues the Statutory similar .
however , he not in the not the same for the information held by the area private .
the this regard , the bill to the the motion length , expect .
we do we not act too soon , the have examined the TAGS all the impact of this initiative .
he not . not a field the the character private and recorded the the information held . is also important that the Canadian the health .
the turn and the concerns of the people in the Canadian raising and the treatment of the information on the health . " whom , but they deserve the be rappel?es the the view of the issues that I wish raised in the Canadian the bill to the .
in a first time , the patients believe that the information medical the inclusion remain confidentiels .
then , they feel a the knowledge what use their will Statements and the the the last will releases , and they not want particularly not the the information that ever to the the third , the people . in the donor and the the people . have given their agreed .
finally , the patients be hesitate to promoting the the information to the " and professional the Canadian health . the the interrogent the the use or the disclosure desdites information .
the the rule 2 ) 1 ) the the bill to the , the manner by the security , the first intelligence the one individual identifiable , the the exclusion of the name and the the CHST the one employee of a company and the the question and The the telephone the Hon. the Canadian job .
the result , the information on the health or the treatment of the one patient identifiable and the security the the care of health care , a professional the Canadian health identifiable structure , by definition , a noble private .
honourable senators , the Association medical Canadian , the Association hygienist Canadian and the other associations as the professional the Canadian health . the answer . agri by the impact why the the have the bill to the C - 6 , the the the policy , the information personal and the the other activities sensibles linked to the system of health .
as the honourable senators , knowing , the bill to the legal the transition and the use of Trade Ministerial the virtue of information personal collected , used or releases the in the part of the trade , the
he not the not been put in songeant the the system of health .
in the , I believe that the Canadian and people . the not freedom , the system of health , the time , dealing the bill to the .
the the motion . the fact that , in a certain the - that he is difficult to determine the , the bill to the the have a cancer why the the system of health .
the so , bill to the motion shaped the the dark trade , he is clear that the not cannot establish a prohibited such a similar - the and the dark related to the care of health , the issues of health similarly the subject of a single different the the other issues .
the subject , set in terms waves , the Canadian of 1 , the bill to the , and that the application to the professional the Canadian health working in a business of the main the motion of delivery of care of health , the Canadian what concern .
in any of the Canadian law influera the Act , affecting the the data Whelan the the purpose of the terminally preventive , the the reporter medical and the Canadian research medical , the Canadian benefit of the care and the Canadian and the the services of care of health ?
honourable senators , specifically .
i believe that he is imperative of clarify the bill to the C - 6 to satisfy the four headings important .
first , the bill to the C - 6 is sufficiently a definition clear the the information are the GST the right to the individual , the life private .
as I , I have observed , he not specify not in what the the provisions the municipal the the information medical .
the example , the rule 4 ) 1 ) , " incidental that is the Canadian law . Consequently the entire set the the respect to the information personal that it recueille , using or Law in the part of the trade .
this , is a profitable trade . is not clear defined .
he seems that the " the Canadian the principle that this excludes automatically the issues medical .
however , the finit the dark trade and the coming to care of health , it is the not clear the the first .
in addition , he not there has no line Director divesting the flow of the information medical of the institution . health and the institution commercial .
second , the bill to the C - 6 not protects not the information medical .
the the rules be a step in the the concerns of information medical to the meeting the Canadian and nature special .
in particular , the bill to the right to clarifi? and changed to the inclusion , in the the concerns of information medical , the the rules specific the grass the focus on the protection of the right to the life private and the garantiront that the information medical not be releases that the one based mined and the the control and with the consent informed the the patient .
in addition , the definition related to the collection and the the use of the information medical should include the the information identifiables , the the information . link allowing the shortcomings the patient , the the information anonymes and the combination of these types of information .
the most , I wish to note that a recent report of the Council Advisory the the information on the health . clear the the entire the legislation , the " the respect to the life private and the Canadian protection of the information on the health , should also include the the provisions clear prevented the use commercial school of the information on the health . "
third , but only the bill to the C - 6 should include the the provisions specific to the information on the health , but it is also important that these provisions are Province also to the areas public and private .
i commend the the provisions are criterion the the part of providing the Code of protection of the information personal the Canadian health some and passed by the Association medical Canadian .
this book the best the basis of the bill gouvernant the collection , the use and the disclosure of the information on the health .
fourth , the part 2 , the bill to the C - 6 not specify not to what purpose of information electronic related to the care of health and the the issues medical be a maniac .
the most , he not there are no presumption , the the hands of the Chair . the kinds of abuse .
honourable senators , I ask you support to the resulting the the the the concerns that settled before the the bill to the C - 6 not continue his years .
the government has the opportunity , even the requirement , the giving the the Canadian of strong rights in the Canadian and the Canadian life private respect to the information on the health .
in the time , he is the one of vital the protection of skills of transfer of the data to the the purpose of care of health legitimate and the occasional a better management and adequate the country system of care of health .
the the fact , the bill to the C - 6 is a measure legislation important and necessary .
he is that crucial that we veillions the the the it needs effectively to the concerns expressed by the members of the community of the care of health .
i believe that the us should try to help the government to the committee , Yolande the the changes to the bill to the , the the in harm a measure legislation , better .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . )
bill to the Canadian 99 on the implementation of the Canadian taxation tax
second reading of Debate the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Hervieux - Payette , P , seconded by the Honourable Senator Robichaud , P ( - Acadie - Acadia ) , the the bill C S - 4 , the Republic of the one would , the the conventions and the the protocoles agreements of the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgarian , the Portugal , the Ouzb?kistan , the Jordan , the Japan and the Luxembourg , in the Canadian avoid the Republic Republic and the prevention the avoidance tax . the Canadian tax on the income , the third time second time .
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
i wish however , wish to the honourable senators , the affect the the treaty and the the behaviour there , the issues relating to resume to the Canada . maintain the the links with him .
the result , I hope that tomorrow , when the bill to the will come to Committee of the Banking , he is a that the the officials senior the the Foreign Affairs , the Canadian better answer to the issues relating to the in the .
the country which I speak . the Ouzb?kistan , a the the ancient republics encroachment in Asia core .
in a recent release , piled the the 20 October , the Russel Zinn AsiaWatch :
... documente regardless a bone of freedom policy , the detention and the victim of the members of the families of judicial political and the dissidents church , the years of the six months months .
he is the so much of evidence cr?dibles the reasons , police hidden regularly the small amount of rBST or the money on the the people . the touch to their allegiances political or religious .
the steering executive of the Russel Zinn AsiaWatch to the European and the Asia core the said :
the government . the Ouzb?kistan claims . prepare the meeting of the election free and corruption . in gleefully the members of the families of the Opposition the the verrous and the the d?barrassant the Canadian key .
this is the not at a way of the Canadian democracy .
in a place release sometime the same day , the Russel Zinn AsiaWatch the said :
the schools and the universities the the Ouzb?kistan sign the opening their soft the the musulmans to the barbe and the the women to the chador .
the this organization :
the government . the Ouzb?kistan the rights of all the Canadian freedom religious .
the expulsion of students musulmans is a place within the this crop .
as if it is the not enough , the government . the Canada , in his own note explicative the the bill to the , the the "
he not . not uncommon that the major vocal and the members of their family be held and tortur?s .
the trade trade , are ?lev?s? 18 million . $ the 1988 .
the Canada . the fact no Investment majeur in the country .
no company Canadian . the Canadian job of whales oil and mining , the the ages be the major attractions the the country .
those who are the journey strongest that is the main the Environment commercial ouzbek the the amount of the gap .
the view of notes the information , the companies Canadian of high technology which have realized the the sales , Ouzb?kistan the in many of hard to do out of affected foreign the the country .
the the data available , he seems that is not be not the one of the regions of the prometteuses to the investors Canadian .
each time that he has been the " a system r?pressif not having not the intent of statutory a minimum of democracy , the Canada has always took Position , the by the the sanctions or by a boycottage whatever .
since it is the well , the commitment to the Ouzb?kistan and the Canada , I do see no why we should adopt a monopoly treaty the the time at the
i hope that the committee will the extent of proof the contrary or the first , the the the the tighten the Canadian . , the " less than the " prove the need to a monopoly treaty to the protection of a good number of Canadians , the plan of the tax , by the , I believe that he would appropriate to propose a subamendment , retrancherait the treaty the the bill to the and the garderait the the gap , long that a .
the - be the system ouzbek imagine , the the Canada is really serious when he promoter the rights of the human and the democracy and that he not the not the subsequent the words of the other .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , her the senator Hervieux - Payette is healthy today , and the motion ? the the report . C - the .
i do know that if the other senators , some other , that the the subject .
if the motion of the , I do I do I will stand .
however , if no other senator . I take the honourable , I move the chamber , bill to the " the committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade .
the Honourable Consiglio Di Nino :
i , I ask a question ?
we have received the many bills of legislation . the nature .
i am remind the the , the few months , only , we have been before the one bill to the bitter the the summer referred to the committee , the business foreign .
a number of the issues , separate the ones of the senator Lynch - Staunton , they also been raised , the
why is the Canadian law will be referred to the committee , the Banking , the place . the committee , the business foreign , as the was the case , he I would , the bills of the primacy the Canadian and signed tax ?
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
i believe that we contrevenons the the Rules , honourable senators ,
the Hon. the Speaker Acting ( the Honourable P . Derek Lewis ) :
the Canadian approach this point , we should adopt the bill to the in paragraph reading .
the senator Hays :
we should let the honourable the the Opposition Deputy of the Opposition .
the senator Kinsella :
the streamline , I move the adjournment of the debate .
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , to the clarify the situation . the issues , this chamber . fall , with your leave , I will retain the motion that I would have to the my remarks , the would brought referred to the bill to the " the committee .
the , we can do the " the motion of adjournment of the debate . the senator Kinsella .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . )
the speech , the Throne
motion of the Canadian the Adresse the answer to Continued the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Jeffrey , seconded by the Honourable Senator Furey , seconded the the adoption of a Adresse the Governor General of Gouverneure general , on the the speech that contemporaries the speech in the the opening of the second session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament . -
( 4e on the Canadian resuming the the debate . )
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I have had to the date the pleasure , my faith , yes , the most of the time , I - the suggested 11 speech , the Throne , as the the Parliament provincial that this same , the the Senate .
that they have been given by the in my province native of the Manitoba , they affichaient all the same characteristic .
they were all of the waves .
he is that the , the by their nature , the the speech , the Throne are not comfortable .
they are refreshed the talk words , but avares the details .
i have always ?prouv? a certain compassion for the Gouverneurs worry and the lieutenants - Colonel the need read the speech .
however , the present speech , the Throne I was deeply CIDA by DFO because the the criteria a new program , a program for the children .
he is very well , I speak to this day , because , as the the indicated Thursday , the senator Callbeck , we have celebrated the Day national the the child Saturday last , the 20 November .
as the Middle the honourable , in 1993 , the government , the guru the 20 November Day national the the child to the writings two events historic the the United , the knowledge of the , the 20 November 1959 , the Canadian Declaration of the rights of the child and the adoption , the 20 November 1989 , the Canadian Convention on the the rights of the child .
the young the day , are the leaders of tomorrow .
the government to our children , better departure possible in the life , we must invest now in the future , in their future .
the experience and the research scientific indicate that the Prime development of a child version the success , the age adulthood .
the the floor of the new millennium , we must see the the the our children facilities the Paralympians and the benefits to the the country from the vigorous and vibrant .
the children . need to our love , the country support and the country deeply , but they have also need to condemn to learn .
their needs basic be a completely .
the early this afternoon , afternoon , I lisais a speech , the senator Gill the the aboriginal the the Canada .
this is tragic , but the needs basic the the children aboriginal are cautious satisfied .
in 1989 , all the parties represented the Canadian House of the House of the one resolution to the Elimination of the poverty , the children , the year 2000 .
as the senator Cohen the record , we are in November 99 and , unfortunately , we have made to the warning by the " 1989 .
however , I hope that , through the the speech , the Throne and the the budget , the in just , the legislators will be the the progress the this regard .
the entire clearly , we do expectations not our objective for the year 2000 , but it is hope that we entamerons the millennium . the good up .
the poverty one of the issues of the development of a child , as well , short , the long term .
it begins in the public . the mother , with a bad nutrition , and the article . " the long - and years of training , affectant all the issues of the growth and nuisant the the success .
the not be the northern the the the one parent the the needs basic - bearing , housing and Materiel documentation - not have not satisfied that anthrax and the ?panouir .
the most of the , the program of the social the the provinces plans to bolster across the the Canada , except the the work up .
i do I else not to the the the people work of the the their position .
i believe that this is making the the image of maintenance and the Hon. own development .
however , if the in writing the people to work , we do we pr?occupons not the the care , to the the children , the will grow ?
i know that will visionary .
the children be losers .
these families initiatives spirits the statistics and the welfare social presently the the workers tall .
in our planning , we must no to the priority to the quality of the care , to the the children .
nowhere the " the Canada . pay minimum not . enough high to allow the " to the people of employment , time full of 9.7 the Canadian poverty .
the Winnipeg , in 1999 , the one of recent the the Council national the the well - be instituted , a traumatic one of the one only child should work 80 at the week , sent to the floor of the poverty , he has a job up to the salaries minimum .
the Winnipeg , for a family , the two parents and two children , he would 118 at the work by week , sent to the floor of poverty .
honourable senators , he not there has the 168 at the one week .
the credit to tax to children , a wonderful program developed on ethnic by the government , the wish to mislead in some provinces as a system , and judgment of reducing the benefits of the social .
the program . " improved the fate of the poor the work , but it is the not increased the income of the welfare social .
the children . , and the people parents .
some of the us we fly the so our children adults not have not always require the us .
this is why the the program , the Program of the pr?scolaire the the aboriginal , the Program Canadian of nutrition pr?natale and the Program of action community to the children . all the key to look the basis of a mere development , long term child the children .
i have been very pleased to find the the speech , the Throne seven commitments to the subject of the children : the the benefits , increases to the cong?s the sanctity and parentaux , a wide federal - provincial to better support the development of the young children , a higher the the income , tax . the families , the the worlds of the most conviviaux to the families , including the the board public federal , the emphasis of the right family , a third injected the fund important in the benefit national to children and the strengthening of the potential of learning , the one requiring the Rescol .
honourable senators , the presentation budget . is not the hall , but , if I dentist Paul Martin , prepare its budget , the families poor the work have a " all the cuts to tax .
all these initiatives are contained , honourable senators ,
in particular , the speech , the Throne announced the the cong?s parentaux am?lior?s through the Canadian extension of the period of the benefits parentales paid by the system of the - job .
we want to the be to the the changes in the meaning to the system of the - job .
the the time , concentrons - we do the the cong?s parentaux .
he is a that the one of the positive , but I hope that , when the the Standing , he will the Canadian the fact that the parents of today , are loans to share of responsibility .
these cong?s not have not offered only to the women .
the Fathers the one chance wonderful the benefit of the cong?s parentaux .
however , with the bill currently the the assurance - job , if the mother and the father wished benefit of the medical , each of the two would be the Canadian waiting the two weeks .
this is unfortunate because the , personally , I wish to more of Confederation Canadian taking the house , personally , the years of forms periods .
personally , when I have had to six weeks to the hospital the the time , the birth of my second child , the a?n?e not win not me visit and it and the father , are many rapproch?s because the the was particularly , the the pooling the it .
the following the afternoon , when the chariot the friandises recovered , I achetais a bookshelf the chocolat to my daughter and I , he ?crivais a letter , compassionate , because it is the the three years , and I , fairness to the Hon. father , the motion become the parent favourite for this period .
i do I known that a little , I return to the house that they mangeaient the dust of chocolat the in our before the the Ch .
but what the the in the , the the years of this period particular , his life , I found . become very tied to my daughter a?n?e and their underlying waiting , today , the
the small worker is a period critical to the good development of the child , as the short , the long term .
the children who have the the experience positive to the years of their granddaughter boyhood cases better to the school , they have a better that the one - the and they are better adapt?s the Canadian life in society .
the late in their lives , they have the best job , the Canadian problems social and the Canadian problems of health .
they are less evidence of the Canadian and babies the the tumultuous , they drink the Canadian Food and they are less evidence of let in the youth .
it is surprend - the truly ?
take the case of a small daughter or the one little schoolboy the five years thing , and the Canadian tongue .
this is the - be a first or second experience of the school .
in the case of children of the classroom average , even the one family fell Telecommunication the appropriate skills parentales - trailers , he is the the - the time , constructed the Canadian tongue , they CWB their behalf , the people living , and The the telephone , they found the alphabet , the Toronto and the numbers .
these children are the one time critical the the learning , the most important , the learning of the reading .
Comparez that the the children who is aware that the numbers , or the alphabet , or the Toronto .
as the beginning , as the beginning of the classes , a group of children . g by the " a place .
this is why the intervention in the first boyhood is the important to the us can reversing the trend the the potential for these children , that the
the one of the I have called recently , 28p. per - and alcohol lead a model antisocial magnitude , whom were offenders to the age of 13 years , 28p. per - and their lot
this is why a program of action national to the children . the important .
the promise of the government . work with the provinces and the territories to the implementation of the Canadian a plan of action . , December 2000 to strengthen the development of the first boyhood is essential .
the program of action national to the children , a bill federal , provincial and territorial - sharing of the objectives of the Day national the the child .
they magazines the same message .
in working together , the Canadian can the government that all the children live in a climate of huge and the understanding , the people are viewed as the the people and that they have the opportunity to achieve their full potential when they will adults .
in the speech , the Throne is also announced trade Canada , a program to the giving the per $ young each year , had the living and the study in the other regions of the Canada .
what wonderful experience !
i am a better belief because the I have lived in many areas of the country , and I know that my children , are also because the people have lived , in many provinces and that they are knowledgeable the subject of two languages official of the Canada .
the repository not also the program , Katimavik .
honourable senators , the the years of the ten years days , a group of these young we will visit the Canadian Hill , and I would suggest to speak to some of the one .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
i am sorry to interrupt the Honourable Senator , but his time , honourable is elapsed .
the senator Carstairs :
i , I have the leave of pursuing , honourable senators ?
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Carstairs :
thank , honourable senators ,
these young the are encouraged by Katimavik not have not the the young . aggressive regarding the kind of the university .
this are the the young the not know that too , the people will be .
however , I can you say , after the have met at the years of the years , the following a year , the public . the program Katimavik , the are the the young . aggressive the people came our two languages official , the people worked the Canadian and the Canadian and community , the Canada and the people now , the bills to their future .
this is that the the need encourage the the Canada .
honourable senators , in the speech , the Throne , the government has also named its commitment to present the new a bill to the young Offenders .
in the , the Minister of the Justice the previous report , new the bill to the subamendment the June C - 4 .
i will be the bill to the very carefully to ensure the the the us not hurt not too toughest .
let - I , let a report of the 20 June 1995 , the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the the subject of the bill to the C - 36 , amend the Act , the young Offenders , the 1 :
many witnesses . maintained that he was contrebalancer the concerns legitimate the the public , the respect to the violence the the Task with the the information supplied the the rate of youth and the the functioning of the system of justice for the young .
the committee does the United the young or the great public . the public , the the members v?hicul?es the the inexactitudes the Canadian fr?quence the the crimes with violence committed by the the Task the same that the the range of the actions .
these infect inaccurate can stimulate the the fears not stem and venture the people to hold the the government . the in the punitives , the evidence of the perks the causes hands of the crimes with violence committed by the the young .
the manner time , the the rate of the youth smoking the young is the Canadian increase the the motion of refrain sir , the House intimidated - the the the young are the most of the violent and that the the government . strict the CWB because the Canadian law at the the young Offenders is too small .
however , honourable senators , the one recent weeks . the Biohazard Correctional the the Canada to the Canadian and evidence of the Centre Canadian of the statistics legal , in the whole , the number of young the people were charged the one offence officers and the people appearing before a court to adolescents . decreased between 1992 and 1997 .
when the very the crimes violent crimes by the the young the the international national , the not Appointments that a frivolous increase .
the transfer of young the the courts for adults not have no increased or transferring .
finally , the severity of the provisions the the respect to the young , increased ; contrary to the turn to the public . the people , the sentences Finland the the young are further , the cl?mentes .
the one of the I have called recently , the only average completion the one young , committed a top was extended to the lack of a adulthood to the same offence .
however , the the Manitoba , the three quarters of the members of bands not have not the the young , the are the the chronic .
honourable senators , the Canada does the the children , prison the one rate of the higher the one client in the most of the United the the United - United , the facilities the rate of incarceration the most high the first , riel as the in the the concerns of offenders that the young .
in Norway , he not there has the 10 boys aged the least , adding years , prison , and the , the one people of five million . people .
the the Canada , he is the 4 per young , tracking the one people of 31 million . people .
does the " really the our young are honouring time and processes than nasty that the young the Finland ?
in Norway , he not there has the Canadian prison to children .
honourable senators , the 30 , 70 per - and youth Offenders are afflig?s the one kind whatever the difficulty of learning .
the the place . durcir the extent legislation regarding the young Offenders , we should minorities the the resources to the deal of problems of the people in difficulty of learning , the provinces are smoking .
the research indicate that the children who benefit of care and the one education . high quality as their daughter age . aged . the many of the other , the alleged to the the crimes and the Canadian and actions of violence , the the Senate as the or as perpetrators .
the Council national the prevention of the spot the recommendation of investigations the fight against the youth in giving the Prime the Canadian good programs social to the children .
honourable senators , the the beginning of my speech , I have mentioned that is the Saturday the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the Convention of the United Nations Convention to the rights of the child .
the Convention treating the the rights of the children and the the young the least , adding years .
it does the the role is the Canadian family in the education . the children .
the Canadian Human the 1989 , in order to the right international , a child was considered as a subject which he was given the the care and the Canadian protection .
the Convention the signing this wonderful , recognizing the rights of the child as one , and the the borrowing the right to the freedom of expression , the association , the meeting , the free and the Canadian life private .
the Canada . the subject of criticism the the international de been 1989 to have failed to repeal the article 43 of the Code offence , the one of conflict with the article 19 , the Convention of the United Nations .
in 1995 , the committee , the rights of the child of the United Nations , recommended that the prohibition punishment the the home or the members expressly and the requested that the Canada pilotage the article 43 the Canadian light of this recommendation .
i am d??ue the plight that he not . not the reference to the ownership of the article 43 in the speech , the Throne .
the media have announced yesterday that the Minister of the Justice will this week , the changes to the Code offence to the protection more the animal , the actions of violence and the abuse .
the changes are destined to recognize the right to the animal not have not a well and that they exist in the the kind .
the children are the the ones collegial .
they have the Canadian our love , the country support and , by the above all , the our chats .
the children . need to discipline , but it is the many of the ways of obliged a child that the common to the the prohibition punishment .
in fact , the the students who conducted that the prohibition punishment diminishing more , and the least , the violence .
the government . oriente in the right direction .
the extent the legal the protection our children and the occasional their full throughout and the potential of their potential is a measure positive .
as a good teacher , I will be a challenge of notes the the subject .
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
i have heard about the the government that the government pretending to the latest the life of the aboriginal , the the women and the the Canadian disabilities , but I have had accomplished hear , the facts that , I do I do , the the subject of the fourth group : the Canadian and Canadians owned the one minority visible .
this is as if we were 107 the Canadian planet , the the least the planet such as the government of the contemplated .
i do I however , the surprised .
the minority visible not have been truly figur? in the priorities of the government .
we do we not part of the the the Prime Minister Order pompeusement the vision Liberal the the new millennium .
i think that this is occurring by the fact that , contrary to the women , we do attirons not the attention of the simple , the country . the .
we do kinds not only the Canadian feelings of offending as the people disabilities .
we do we not the point of mire the the media as the aboriginal .
the the place . that , he seems that we are simply that the so that Black , Chinese , Vietnamiens , Indian the the Indes orientales , Pakistanais , Nig?rians , S?n?galais , Egyptian , Libanais , Nicaraguayens , Boliviens , and Fundamental .
we thought a group h?t?rog?ne the individuals fabric of all the regions of the world .
we thought a group of individuals among which it is working for the U the their new land of teachers while the Canadian many other . , since a century or more ; we estate all the Canadian and minority who trying to overcome the various forms of racism , the partisanship and the intolerance concerning the people to the their daily .
he seems that no - and we do . dignified the one attention particular or not seem deserve the less Gallery of the or the consideration of the government . the government .
the the this apparent inexplicable and committed , he is the my duty of the Canadian speak , this chamber today , the
he has left a part small but Maritimer the country community , Chairperson and the Hon. the
i rise to the honourable , for a short time , to the subject of the case of the minority visible the the Senate .
honourable senators , I wish out of the government that the members of the minority visible are also the the citizens of our cherished country .
in spite of the difference of the character of their peau , the Canadian tax . their argument , the their compassion or the people free , they are part integral the country , family Canadian .
he not be not the fulfilment or their miss the ways , as the the the shortfall , in the speech , the Throne .
the the last surveys , 32p. per - and people of Toronto , the the members of minorities visible , the as 31p. per - and people of Vancouver , per cent of the people of Calgary , per cent of the people of Montreal and foresight per - and people of Halifax .
the the years of the next years , these figures will still increase .
statistics Canada for the the , will have 7 million . the Canadian minorities visible the the Canada . 2016 .
if such is the case , they inoculated 20 per - the people of the
in spite of their number , growing , the members of the minority visible are largely accountable to the gap the the flot Main the Canadian society .
honourable senators , look around the honourable .
the minority visible minorities cent per - our population .
future of the GDP per - the Senate or the Canadian House of the House ?
the the in the - the in the forces personnel , the Order judicial or the industry bancaire ?
how the chairs of university you , you who are members of minorities visible ?
how the fact , he is the CBC not seem not find the members of minorities visible to take the " and many shows the discussion and the the many shows the experts .
how this is the - the , in the ?
the exclusion of the Canadian minorities visible the their just the Canadian and jobs . a response to one of the areas of our society .
the basis public . the Canada . is a great example .
the Department of the National Defence the least , $ the Canadian minorities visible the one total de17 $ employees civilian , and the Biohazard Correctional the the Canada . the " only $ among his 12 per employees .
the situation is still more disgraceful the the Foreign senior .
honourable senators , the Canadian 3 per - and stakeholders the Canadian public service of the Canada . the Canadian minorities visible .
the " said that , the the exception of the people being the application , he not there has the in the Canadian public service , no , the Minister of the one minority visible .
in the , the last would have the retirement he is the two decades !
that the , I .
he is the will the Canadian per the - provincial in the basis public , and they are all of race Kerner !
otherwise , the no - and the Canadian 9 per the Canadian minorities visible that I have mentioned , there has a moment . has the qualities INS to become the - Minister .
the one only to the one . has the education , the experience and the knowledge - to the exercise the part .
this is difficult to believe !
however , the not . not a question of time ; it is a question of dapper .
the the leaders of the basis public . the Canada believe in the equity in the Canadian job , the people . there believe that the
the left , the the their books , I do think that the people . believe .
honourable senators , the basis public . is not the only to turn of opening the doors to the members of minorities visible .
the same in realizing in our own court .
take a minute to reflect the Canadian last time when we have seen a disgruntled the the Senate , was part of a minority visible .
if you are as I , this minute the in becoming two or three .
the fact is that , the the board of the Clerk , only 1,2p. per - and employee of the Senate . the Canadian minorities visible .
it is a total of six the Act 6,401 employees , in a farce the motion meant to the giving the example , the other .
i outlined the two institutions , play , but it is the the well , and the
the real problem , the I , the motion that the not stand not , the tensions the idea that he not . not necessary to act .
in the other words , the the said that if the not the way , the problem dispara?tra the the - the .
honourable senators , we have already seen , with the plebiscite the the Quebec and today , the with the fishery on the West is , the one such approach . led the " the the problems .
the leading to the minority visible the the opportunities playing the federal - job .
we should the subject , to the opinion of the knowledge and find the the ways of generosity the problem .
heritage that this is there is not clean not ; yet , the motion exactly what the us do .
the same thing . happened in the area of the relationship Knee .
the Canadian companies , that the wrong that they live in a country . spokesperson .
he not there has not the ?meutes Knee here .
the assassins not abattent not the the leaders of the communities minority .
the black not have not achieve the death or nearly by the the bands the policiers the long - a road or agress?s sexually in the emergency the bain the the Post of police .
the the world . committed and the , the Canadian the space to all .
the only deal with this , the motion that is not . not true .
the Canada . is not a Arcadie the " era modern ; it is the not true , the the all the Canadian companies , next .
in the , the many , the love the place to the aggressive , the Canadian non , the Canadian fear and the Canadian haine , yes , the haine .
the the crimes aggressive by the haine are committed to the Canada , the so , happily , the not . not to the same basis that the the United - United . Quoi that he , the , it is happening .
it has been battue and noy?e .
why ?
the the it was a the one minority visible .
we have the the groups sectaires the the Canada . " the Ku Klux Klan , the White coal Canada , the Nationalist Party of Canada and the Heritage Front .
the newspapers and the television . speak about the Canadian the question .
why ?
the the Canadian portion of the Canadian . the not normally .
the the rich , the equity in the Canadian job , the racism and the crimes aggressive by the haine are the the issues intellectuelles rather than practices and that the prairies .
in the , the rich are cautious the the targets .
honourable senators , the minority visible not lower not a single Special .
they not call not the sex the are refus?es the Canadian and the
they want work , the Canadian and jobs r?mun?rateurs , Nobel their children in a workshop sure , and to the possibility of the one of sustainable and vibrant , as the the world .
as the other , they want to accepted the the the provinces are and that the " no account not the Canadian and country . was or the Canadian colour the their peau .
we have ignore the problems of progress the past decades for the that the possible .
the - be am , I still at too optimism .
honourable senators , I have the " the beginning of the year , his the Canadian the Canadian the community black the the Canada .
in my remarks , I have said that I doutais , the us arrivions is the the equality of my alive .
after the speech , some of the time . to why I continuais the defence my ideas when the in my Centre within the I do thought not the the things McGrath change .
i have answered that I do I do indeed , choosing .
this is a responsibility to the magnitude welcome to despite the the reserves that I can be .
honourable senators , the the " the fishing the have some trouble .
let - I , in douter .
i Appointments that the the negative negative remain the the Order in the corporation Canadian and the the media , the respect to the minority visible .
the access to some jobs , subrepticement deduct .
the members of the minority visible continue to the make deal of n?gres , the chinetoques , the eye Pakistanais , and the asiates .
i do I , not sure that the things have indeed , change .
the answer to the not in a bill to the - that is clear .
we have the Charter Canadian of the rights and Freedoms , the Act , the the rights of the human and the Act , the citizenship Canadian .
yet , the prejudice and the racism remain .
the Reform players higher and very that the minority visible should be rel?gu?es the the back - the , increases .
the board public federal ultimately . too little of minorities visible , the the coming to the not cannot fairer a bill to this dispute .
the the members of groups sectaires lingering regularly the the documents obscene Honourable the demand the intolerance racial and ethnic , the violence and the Canadian and gentle hostile .
honourable senators , the real problems , the problem of the racism and the the prejudice section in the education and the trade .
the people must learn to the Province .
they must reliance their worries amongst .
the that , he and to the the information .
this is the information , the Canadian eliminate the hostilities and the negative .
it makes the the links between the members of the community and promoting a better understanding .
however , the information to the only to the problem . the problems .
he must be a one ' .
he is that all of convinced that the minority visible the right to all the benefits of the citizenship .
this is that the motion to the heart of the problem .
i believe that he come to the " the government , the whole this commitment .
a part of the responsibility is the us driver , in the the country , to the revised and the respect linked .
this is the the government . tracer the relative to follow .
however , he not the fact that the
the Prime Minister and the cabinet have decided to the not be the Canadian the question of the minority visible .
they are as if it is there is the
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
honourable senators , I regret to interrupt interrupt the Honourable Senator , but his time , honourable is elapsed .
would the the Canadian leave of up ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Oliver :
thank , honourable senators ,
their problems . deserve not our attention .
that the the solutions to eliminate the racism , the in?galit?s and the discrimination , the not . not a priority national .
the entire clearly , I do I have the agreement with this attitude , and the motion this opposition the " head the wishes to the Senate today , the
in closing , honourable senators , I say that if the government . " no , really the this issue , we could the make here .
would the diversity of the knowledge and the rich experience of the honourable , I am sure that a debate on the place . the minority visible the the Canada produce , the Canadian asset evidence .
if we ignore then leave of the Canadian the question , a form of Committee of the committee , the business Social the be set the this effect .
the mandate the person a successful the the country for the the recueillerait and compilerait the opinions the most of the Act , employment , the public . the minority visible .
the the so ably a committee Joint the Canadian House of the House and the the Senate to ensure a follow the the findings of the committee Daudlin the 1984 .
you , recall that is the one into the participation of the minority visible the Canadian life of the corporation Canadian .
what the Senate . road emprunt?e , honourable senators , we do we not follow the example of the government in sociology nothing .
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I wish to congratulate the honourable the people , and seconded the motion of the Canadian the Adresse the answer to the speech , the Throne , they have all of the with eloquence the the name of their provinces and regions .
the funding of the research and the method strong to ensure that funding to have a Communities the Canadian vitality the Canadian a country and determine the future of the economy and the Hon. the Canadian health , and that the well - be the the citizens .
the the I went satisfied the the speech , the Throne , I wish to speak briefly a the the shortcomings .
this is that the the price Nobel John Polanyi Bishop the " marketing of the science , the
the Canadian a recent speech , the Corporation Royal , he has criticized this trend in Beijing that it crumbling the universities Canadian and bring the most highly scientific the the country . the category .
he would have added that this trend contributes , the the collapse of the basis public , was the " a time , the more centr?e the the best interest of the consumers and the Canadian public that the the concerns of the companies .
the recipient of the price Nobel the in the way to the political the funding of the research , the governments federal and provincial , the people . the the universities the the rate of the industry .
the Canada is went too far , the the said , in virulent the research industrialis?e the the expense of the research syst?mique or fundamental .
the brain the the United - United the scientific and the researchers the Prime the motion also the result , the the least , the , the this policy , furthermore , the rather strangely , the United - United the are held in wind of this industrialisation the Canadian research .
the the United - United , only 4 per - the research university . funded by the area private .
i hope that the government announced in the speech , the Throne the the respect to the Instituts the research , health j a change the the values the the point .
the farmers have shipments this year , the potato records or nearly .
in Saskatchewan only , they have happened 27,8 million . tonnes of Grain , the ol?agineux and the crops special .
the pervasive , and stays - plates and their way of life . threatened , the lead totally because the the grants federal and the convoluted the one U.S.A. the the the the governments European and American market . their own producers c?r?aliers .
the Canada . subventionne not these growers agricultural .
if the silent the the speech , the Throne was cruel , the answer to the government to the crisis in the weeks , the follow ?voquait the " bringing the the agneaux the .
the first ministers of the Manitoba and the Canadian Saskatchewan , the are concluded the Ottawa , the summer sommairement claimants .
the Minister federal - the Agriculture , announced that a $ 75 the 170 million . $ would said , the Program of the in the Canadian origin related to the income crop , commonly called ACRA .
this figure is less of 15 per - that the the first ministers of the Manitoba and the Canadian Saskatchewan sheet necessary .
this spring , the government does the range 79 million . $ to come to help to the farmers victims of disasters .
he said , the the not . not in the Canadian contribute to quote - the .
the Saskatchewan is also the arrangement impraticable and others , the simplest the the program ACRA .
the so , the documentation help to more , the problem , the motion that the the image , the program ACRA is far the be the Canadian up .
in Stan the the 25 October , the program . was d?bours? that 227 million . $ , the least , solely per - that the the Minister drain of the Canadian assistance of 1,78 billion . $ .
as it has been done mentioned in this chamber , the Canadian the half of the CCN made by the people of the Manitoba and the Canadian Saskatchewan , the explanations .
here is that Morris Dorasch that the the comments in Agri - uranium :
when he paying , the program ACRA that a financing the the weather the , for the weather reasons and the Canadian bad the .
i wish frustration a point of the summer raised in the years of the debate . emergency .
the farmers are to the the money , Acting .
the people . in receiving not , they not be not in the Canadian ensemencer the the spring .
this is also told that this .
the person to provide the the assistance of all kinds of ways , the the Senate by the fact , the income net , the magazines or the reduction legislation . the rates of transportation that the farmers are up and the northern , the following the the students , the transfers to the the least 5 $ the elderly .
the Minister of the Finance we , confirmed that the money . lack not .
the problem . in the " the level of the political partisanship .
this is why the organizations of the West trying to persuade the Prime Minister of the plight by the - the the consequences of this crisis in Cuban visit to the areas agricultural the the West .
he has a " the same protection of the government . the government . the Canada . the other crops receiving in the other countries with which he is the Competition .
today , the our farm the Wheat receiving less of the third of the grants the RCMP their competitors in Europe .
the Leader of the government to the Senate . criticized the the provinces , surely the help more to the program ACRA .
i must be noted that the the United - United , the the in Europe , the motion of level of the high the government , due to grants .
no state American not offer the program of subsidies agricultural the vaillent the only to be crafted .
the superbudget the the Union European is the the the GST to the grants agricultural .
the the thousands of farmers and their families are forced to leave of land , and the us that the the motion of determining inexorable the the progress technologique , but the industrialisation in the area . is not normally and not a not a technological .
the time . " - be time to the farmers . express their own message hard .
smokers the the intrants the people increase the production and the revenues the the Canada . earners foreign through the the export , but not the income net of the farmers , the motion of misuse the the not confer any credit to the initiatives and the the travail of the farmers .
the problem of the family crop . parl in a section that I have received recently , I intr?pide Leader of
i wish to read a smooth :
the " . recently , the most of the people in the world were nourris by the small farmers who 80,000 various food the basis for smokers the communities local and the market local .
but with the rules of the WTO , the small farmers disappear .
in a great the Canadian the world ( a right to the United - United ) , the the companies international the way in hand , and evidence of the Agriculture and used . the events chemical and now , biotechnologie .
the small hailed the copyright the place to the immense rivers the monocultures the luxury francophone the the export .
the first , transportation of food food d?t?riore the Environment .
the the transportation of food by tugboat , by accident or by air to the four parts of the planet . increase the consumer the energy , worsening the pollution the the Oceans and the the fallout and sustainable the the changes Ni ... - ... .
he is the Canadian emballages , the the theory a more , and the the forestry .
he is the new infrastructure .
the , the entire the , the foods products industriellement are less shaped , coupled the the events chemical the polluent the soil and the water and taken the the problems of health public .
the result , not . protect the seaway crop , the motion exchanging a precious valuable .
the same , the seaway crop . is the small .
the the Canada , it is to the 10 per the 20 per hectares .
the senator Carstairs , he with great the eloquence of the Program of action national to the children and the the importance of the education in the small worker .
i would say simply that , if it is making a new , a change the the Code offence the the prohibition punishment , I am pleased to support a moment amendment .
when I admit the the board school , the the Manitoba , we have eliminated the prohibition in the Order .
let - I , that a word " the subject of the evidence of the program , not to concr?tiseront the - be not so .
the , in June 1997 and the Canadian campaign campaign , he has been said that a new government Liberal ?tablirait the the locations the awards to ensure the well - be the the children and d?bloquerait a financing of 20 million . $ the five years .
a Hamani the months , later , no centre not the more . the Act up .
the question of the garderies is still more important .
i wish to the two reports recent to us remember why we do we not overlooked the services of dire and why we have the Canadian a system national .
the Prime , and the senator Carstairs , the fact which , the are the new evidence neuroscientifiques the adverse that the three alternatives years of life of the child have the the impact on the ability to learning , the behaviour and his health during the the life .
the not give the the child a good start in the life , the motion . the Land the real deficit of the grise the the Canada , not the brain the the brain .
second , the report . upon the the investment public in the program . firms the the very young children are also important that the investment in the education associations , school and middle and the Canadian health .
third , the report makes the the communities cases . effectively to integrate the program provincial and federal , the level local .
this report , as many of the prior to the house to the leaders political that , the people n?gligent the services of dire , they the people to the risk of the corporation .
he asked to the government , the investir3,5 billion . $ in a system national the garderies the quality and affordable the partnership with the parents and the governments provincial and territorial .
that update a monopoly Investment ?
the the report :
the many programs social players the families , but the services of dire are the armature the all these programs .
the services of dire are the program , recoupe the Canadian , the safety of the income and the services .
the the commissioner to again again , the services of dire are the part essential to the participation of the parents , particularly the the Non , the Canadian public active .
the improvement of the participation of the Non the Canadian public active . essential if the " means reduce the poverty upon .
Michael McCracken , the Infometrica , is went , the way and the coming the number of jobs would be created .
a reduction of a billion . $ the the tax on the income of the particular characterized approximativement 9 per jobs , the cost of 96 per $ by job .
a billion . $ 1,106,000 the the services of dire characterized 46 $ jobs , a cost of 8 bracket $ by job .
this is the same a Revenue enough sad because the the critical that the workers of garderies not constrained not enough sir .
however , the are there , the facts bruts .
the reporter Linda McQuaig we said that Health Canada has developed a bill to the National the garderies .
however , he seems that the government . the Canada . concessions not the program with great the effect and that he not in the not the promotion .
the most , he not . not the reference in the speech , the Throne the Canadian protection of the health of the children , the threat environmental .
let - I , you to a leadership .
we know that the incin?rateurs municipal , some industries and the people who are br?ler the the lumber treaty ?mettent the the dioxines in the Environment .
we know that the the footsteps of this substance arsenal very Toxic the odd in our food .
interest , the " in the in the milk maternel the Canadian and viability forty time senior the Canadian telcos in a steak .
a chance to do the motion introduced , obviously , the the years of the debate on the bill to the C - 32 , for diversity the the the the dioxines that traps bannies and convince the municipalities , the governments provincial and the business of change their processes sectors .
the government has also missed the opportunity to do the Canadian leadership in n?gociant a treaty international the removal of the dioxines to the the Canadian that lawyers , the transportation atmosph?rique the Canadian long disappear the the dioxines and the other products chemical wage .
however , he not . not too late - that the ever to the
in the speech , the Throne , he is that the Canadian and the will taken on the pesticides .
these measures to the northern been mothballed , because he is now some 6 per products advanced the are registered the the Canada .
however , as the Auditor General of the importance , no extensions not . recueillie the the use of the pesticides and we do know that the most what are all their ingr?dients , because only the ingr?dients active be a record registered , then , the huiles or solvants sites used as other components remain surgical .
the effects of the pesticides the the children . the not mesur?s .
only the effects on the chronic the are .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
i regret to interrupt the senator , but his time , honourable is elapsed .
the senator Spivak :
i , I conclude my remarks , honourable senators ?
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
is the the Canadian agreed , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Spivak :
he not to a that the Canadian , the few of the shortcomings the Canadian Act , the events antiparasitaires the 1969 , the motion facing d?pass?e .
he is the five years , the government has made public the " Book mauve the , in which he has suggested a new system regulatory , recognizing the conflict of interest inherent the Agriculture Canada , the is the Canadian , as initiate and as independent of Regulations the the events antiparasitaires .
the power to Regulations the summer transf?r? the the Minister of the health .
five years , later , no legislation . the more . the .
as the say AT . S . Eliot , the - that the northern the the the way . come to engage the Canadian thinking and the action ?
the height , if the government has recognized the conflict of the the U the the level of the pesticides , he refuses the look the conflict of the the long to the level of the issues of the safety Article and the the Environment .
the Agency Canadian of Caches of the foods , by the , promotrice the Canadian biotechnologie , the motion appropriately in the Canadian conflict when it is the view powers , by the bill to the C - 32 , the responsibility of the assessment of the impact on the Environment the Canadian companies relinquish the the plantes and the the animal .
this was premised the role of Environment Canada .
the other issue of the honourable senators words , the motion of the the change climate .
the speech , the Throne , the the government suddenly with the other levels of the to meet the commitment to the country , the Kyoto .
the most of the need to the the their seats , the commitment to the Kyoto was a way to the country , there was the Canada , the not had not complied the commitments made to Rio the donor the opposite .
is almost the one decade that the country . agreement of reducing the television the scourge the effect of Greenhouse and the Canada , and other countries , not the more up any of the
this is my wish to the very simple .
the cost of the damage occur by the disasters natural in the world opinion . the five the ten years .
in 1960 , they will chiffraient the least , 10 billion . $ by year .
the present , they will chiffrent the most of 70 billion .
the year , the the companies , uncontrolled the the Canada . have paid 1.5 billion . $ .
the Honourable Grimard Grimard :
i have led my career of counsel in Rouyn .
i am I , mesur? , the Canadian a election federal , and that the my most of gloom , the Gilles , the son of R?al , as the the bravery all that the lower .
today , the the rest 38 days before the opening the champagne that many d?gusteront the 31 December for f?ter , the midnight , the spark in a place century and a place millennium .
yet , the fruits imported the the United - United the biggest price , the garniront the plateau , bombing the number of the not have more travel as the prior to the foreign the the country .
in the , the dollar Canadian . fallen the the third of the value over the years 70 , the one good part during the three years in the
the employee ordinary are underpaid , $ Canadian .
their bosses , the export more to the United - United , voyagent .
during the the foreign - raising necessitates , the small are the the system because they pay worth 50 the to each dollar win the the Americans , and they must pay 1.50 $ to each of their imports the horror of the United - United .
i know that the " will I say : " Tu just the the recruit .
well , the only another De a chamber , he not . not the Canadian saturer the market artificiellement the affected .
but the the other , I note that the speech , the Throne not final not to those who is concerned , the health of our dollar .
the government . , whatever the ?nerver .
the year , the the Prime Minister of restricting the seat that is not . not serious if the Halifax Canadian . the the matter to the United - United , since they golden the the New - New .
i am well , the Canadian and Canadians tourists the one of first .
i agree that a global , managed begin by itself , the , but I wish to say that I do none not only the the tree the r?signation the challenge to say that if the Canadian can go to the New - New or , the the fact , that , everywhere , the the Canada , they not have not to the correct .
what inspiration and what share is the in the speech , the Throne ? - Response is a " the the land and the the miettes .
the in creating , he would reduce the tax .
however , each time that the " instead of the Minister and his premiers the the comments , they find a the the reasons for competition the time , we .
the the contrary , the Canada tol?re a rate of unemployment rate , report , the Canadian our mate of the south , a burden tax accablant , a disette the purchase and a lack of jobs for the young .
comble the first , our drain the most gifted ?migrent the the United - United to both reasons : the the best salaries , because the lifetime , money American , and the Canadian tax to pay .
he is the well , many drain foreign the sign the work , the Canada for the same reasons .
Peter C . Jeffrey , a great writer and observer learned , the actions during the the decades on the economy Canadian .
in a section released in the meaning Affairs , the Ottawa Citizen du17 November 99 , Mr. Justices the said that the chairman of Nortel Networks , John Roth , the reason , he has said recently that the rate of Tax Act , incomes the the particular , into the the Canada cell the brain the the United - United the the scholars the most knowledgeable and trained the country , the
Mr. . Jeffrey the said that , in the last The the the Ivey Environmental Journal of the Hebrew of Western Ontario , John Roth the compar? this loss the same the Gretzky the Canadian high technology .
the most is , ENAP Roth , only 28 , the 400 managers senior the leading equal to the Canada .
honourable senators , you have certainly received yesterday , the as I , a previous the the Cercle national the the press , for us come to the the I just the honourable senators , John Roth , the and chief of the leadership of Nortel Networks , will be held Wednesday , the 1 December 1998 , the Ottawa .
the theme of the conference is the following : " Pourquoi the Canada meanwhile , but only the most great talents and his positions the best Elizabeth , but also his leadership of leadership of the industry ? "
therefore , the one some of the the government r?pand a half - truth .
we vendons 85 per - our profound the the United - United and a dollar low we discover the the level .
but the revers the Canadian Legion , the motion that the government escamote and refuses the code that we achetons , 75 per - our imports the the United - United and that we must pay almost 1.50 $ Canadian to each dollar American .
these groups cycle the the dollar engloutissent the the amounts extremely important to our have the
the the United - United , the the years of the six first month of 1999 , we have importing to 25,8 billion . $ the vehicle vehicle , papers and alternative and equipment wheelchair , and that the close to 22 billion . $ the bouilloires and machinerie dissent to the great industry .
a place component essential to our imports is the equipment Churchill and the aircraft the control for which we have vers?11,7 billion . $ the the United - United the six months .
the one another of the the price of the magazines American sold to the Canada has increased the Maritime per the the years of the last year .
the most , when we vendons the the United - United our table first , the country Railway and our aluminium the vrac , we are rachetons very often filtered in the events myriad , in versant a double penalty if our dollar is low .
in our Access - eat , the price of the fruits and the the l?gumes , in majority of Tax American , the increased the per cent since 1992 , then , the Canadian and credited the increased the almost 25 per .
we glorifions our voisinage with the United - United to describe our way of life , such a the their , and the same time we are totally the the United - United to us allows , r?affirmant the the means the suggested our identity own .
the trade , the detail , the transportation Air , the sports , the we , we have heard about the the problems of the hockey majeur auCanada - the research scientific , the Council , the television , the culture and the road we show that we r?sistons , the the attrait American .
the government has said , the chamber , the the rate of change low - the dollar Canadian favorisait the export .
this et the the dollar created a vital the the most commonly the instability .
he I would a the point of a place deal that the Americans , only Super our country , but that they are also the gap the the purchase cash , the Canadian Room and the bloc , the the the not be not to sell .
they are varying Lower the our business because the their cost is mighty there , because of the U health of our dollar , astute - I , the low the the " the piastre the Caouette the .
in a section of - Presse the the 16 October the , the fact that Mr. Mundell that the loss of the third of the value of the dollar Canadian long 25 years equivalent to a reduction national the salaries .
the body deterrent drain a moment d?valuation the cake .
he moved , in addition , the the Canada . whose his political the fluctuation monetary and the feasibility a rate of change fixed with the dollar American .
Richard Harris , professor of Economy , the University Simon Fraser the Canadian British - British , support this predatory and the name in the net minority who is there broad that the the benefits .
a monopoly blocage not created not the unanimous .
the Chair . deterrent , I do I do come .
however , I know that the increases and the small the the dollar provoquent the the enrichissements instantan?s .
how the our citizens , the people unless the flair to justify the humeurs the Canadian m?t?o economic , the poorer also !
i do I do think the the first , internalize the Canadian sadness to the seconds .
these variations subites and prononc?es the the huard the one wrong the inevitable .
in the , I - I remind the lender per - our profound will the the United - United , but that 75 per - our imports the Iraqi , the
that the " no use not the , enrolled that the Canada profound , the will the the best in the best of the mondes .
i ask a place . .
i think the Imasco the , he is the " only a day , the weapon Pharmaprix the the Quebec and Shoppers Drug Mart the " the Canada .
the skin the Surveyor Canadian symbols the view of Lords .
i thinkers that is that the the Canada .
let the the clay the montage the Motor the GM the Boisbriand , surely maintained the respiration artificielle been 10 years and the the employee speak time , and fear of a mine imminente .
the Canada urge the one prosperity uncommon , but it felt the Canadian chord raide .
this is because the country to the Upholder within the decreased been some years , we have lost the the jobs , the our young the concerned , and future and that we lisons the the messages the concern in the media that I venture from the sonnette the backlog .
a not the temerity the way , I know that some positive to the Canada . " the example of the Union European and the feasibility a faster common the would the dollar American .
one , we do the amounts not at the
i believe that a great majority of the us , Canadians , the one or the the other language , we too money in our have the to renier our identity .
this is to this reason that we fix the us shrink , the distinction , the the flag American .
these measures alone will the the Canada . maintain its reputation .
honourable senators , I am sure that is the the expressed the all the members of this chamber .
all , we want bequeath to our children a country . full prosperity .
this will only a plan of fortitude and the vigour the productivity the return to our economy .
now that the government seems to domin? the inflation and the single the years . years , the political the the Economy d?ficitaires , core a dollar Canadian , the niveaude 66 cents American is unacceptable .
leave to the committee , using the documents and evidence collected in the the examination of the bill to the previous to the study of the bill to the present
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Oliver , seconded by the Honourable Senator Di Nino :
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the Committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the the years of the study of the Bill C S - 17 , the Act , Code offence respect to the victim criminal and the Canadian and concerns related , the Canadian the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament , that removal the the Committee , when he will have set , for the present study of the bill to the S - 6 . - (
the Honourable Senator Cools ) .
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , the senator Cools has forgotten his place and I wish to the honourable .
the agreements the debate on this motion , I wish you refer to the -
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I hesitant the conceiving the senator Oliver , but the debate must be adjourned . the name of the senator Cools .
if the senator Oliver wants to the closing , the Honourable Senator not be not the possibility of the sincerity .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
the senator Oliver :
the senator Carstairs :
this is very well , honourable senators , the condition that the senator Cools . whatever not take the honourable .
i do wish to the subject now and I am fully contributing to hear , Senator Oliver .
the senator Hays :
since the senator Cools has given the agreement , the senator Oliver the , the Canadian the speech .
the senator Oliver :
honourable senators , for complete the debate on the this motion , I wish attention your attention of the 56 874 and 875 the Canadian sixth edition of Beauchesne , page 250 .
they say that the following :
the committee , not the not get the inquiry . the end of a session the make the " the House of the fact , and that the the evidence that he has heard .
he can the addition recommend that the Canadian session following the House of merit the same matter and that he can the use of the evidence recueillie to the that the
the least , the House . the synthetic the in the fact , a committee . " to report of the evidence upon before a committee such the Canadian a session adequate , except the form of appendice .
he is clear that the evidence received by a committee to the years of a session 81 can be removed the one of the the years of a new session with the leave of the Senate .
the comment 875 specific that is the first , the acceptable .
he says that the the absence of the approval of the Senate , the committee . " to report of the evidence , the not . " material . appendice .
if the books the authority to the Senate to the the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional that the the evidence received the " the bill to the S - 17 , the years of the last session in the part of the study of the bill to the S - 6 years , Charge at the the committee could the use fully the evidence before collected .
the practice British support the Canadian determining the question motion .
the 22 edition of Erskine Erskine , the the pages 635 and 669 , the the the reports or the civil - Proceedings the evidence of committees precedents the are p?rim?s are frequent claimants the Canadian and committees ult?rieurs and that the article , the study of interpellations the not had not been completed the case of the prorogation the the Houses .
in addition , the Canadian 10 precedents the summer standard to this predatory the the years of the ten years in the I have drawn the attention of the honourable senators , the one of these pr?c?dentsle 3 November the .
the reason for the this predatory is acceptable . , the fact obvious .
as I , I mentioned the last time that I have raised the question to the Senate , the fact , to the Canadian and reports and evidence before received by a committee to the years of a session 81 of the removal the one of student the same question to the courts of a new session savings of the time and the the money , and the motion . the practice affordably .
why hold that a committee call the new the the witnesses who have already appeared to the subject ?
we gaspillons their time and the money . the taxpayer .
some of these witnesses . appeared to the costs of the Senate and we should their to the evidence to get , the that the the costs of the Senate .
the most , the honourable members of the committee . , while . the their time asset to the audition the the witnesses and the the study of the issues .
why should the us to ask the other , the Canadian and time to hear , the evidence ?
he not there has no reason for compensating that the the the Canadian and precedents the previous was set for the the kind of Motion to the I put the " the bill to the S - 6 .
i have also consulted Beauchesne to the knowledge . the the said , the instructions to the committee , the Canadian ways to understand the concern raised in this regard , the senator Cools .
the mentions appropriate included the the 56 681 the 685 the the pages 210,000 and 211 .
in the 22 edition of Erskine Erskine , he is the Canadian and recommending the the pages 515 the 519 .
honourable senators , the motion that I present . is not the Canadian psyche the one large such as the benefits Beauchesne and Erskine Erskine .
a large is a motion During a committee to work that is the the would put banned or the enjoignant the work that is the the the words , alone .
the authorities discussing the Canadian and deciding the instructions Determination .
the rule 687 the Canadian page grew the precincts the "
is suggested , education , not to salt not to the content of the bill to the or the will the the supreme the Hon. the .
the motion that I present . allows not the committee to work that is the the would put banned .
all the committee . given to print the the witnesses and the collection of the evidence .
the only to the the Senate allows the committee to work , the motion of using the evidence before recueillie by a committee to the opportunity to a meeting 81 in the part of the study of a bill to the .
the authorities in the Canadian Rules and the practice of the Senate indicate clear that my motion is valid .
the sense and the efficiency justifying that the " continue to the common .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
business Social , Science and Technology
motion During the committee to study of facts new the the Euthanasia and the assistance to the suicide - Adjourned the the debate
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs , pursuant to the opinion , the 18 November 99 , moved :
the extent in the people were fishing in the the recommendations unanimous made in the report ;
2 . - established to the Canada . the various issues candidates in the report ;
3 . - established to the foreign the the various issues candidates in the report .
that the Committee present its report final the the most final 6 June 2000 .
the honourable senators , to the the objective of the subamendment , the Senate clear to the honourable , I wish to the personification that during the period from the June 1995 , today , the somewhat 25 per copies of the report , De the life and the Canadian death to the summer drafts .
he is much of the Canadian a number of the years of schools of Medicine and the date of the people to the reference to the issues of Euthanasia and the assistance to the suicide .
however , I do I do the intent of review of making major the this study related to the Euthanasia and the the assistance to the suicide .
i hope that this study chair only the decisions taken the way unanimous .
honourable senators , the condition that the motion receiving the agr?ment the the Senate , the study would explain .
it would the point of the state of the care palliative the the Canada , there was the state of Progress of the implementation of the Canadian and recommendations unanimous the 1995 , the committee .
it would the point of the state of the Governments of the pain and the the practical the s?dation the the Canada , there was the state of Progress of the implementation of the Canadian and recommendations unanimous the 1995 , the committee .
it would the point of the state of the refusal and the the Supreme the the treatment of survival the the Canada , there was the state of Progress of the implementation of the Canadian and recommendations unanimous the 1995 , the committee .
it would the point of the state of the ball advanced to the Canada , there was the state of Progress of the implementation of the Canadian and recommendations unanimous the 1995 , the committee .
it would the point of the state of Progress of the implementation of the Canadian the recommendation unanimous the uncertainty the the research on the CCN the assistance to the suicide the the Canada .
it would the point of the state of Progress of the implementation of the Canadian the recommendation unanimous the uncertainty the the research on the CCN the Euthanasia the the Canada .
it would the point of the state of Progress of the implementation of the Canadian the recommendation unanimous the jobs in the Code offence a new leader of Judge to murder the the third degree .
it would also the point , the case afforded , the the information domain in the annexes the the report , there was the events enhancing , the jurisprudence and the evolution of the question to the foreign .
honourable senators , I do think that the one of the the foreign the Canadian Library of the Parliament , that the result of the Canadian . the .
i wish enter our work . delay , with the approval of the Senate , the course , the so that the us can be our report of 138,481 June 2000 .
he not be not there have the travelling , honourable senators , the the I wish to use the Canadian Conference of vid?oconf?rences .
i have asked to the Clerk of the committee , inventory a budget , because the Canadian . " fatalities , in my place life .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the Honourable Senator Carstairs take the it . provide a desire ?
the senator Carstairs :
yes .
the senator Kinsella :
the the words of the motion of the amounts before the the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology . encountered the this activity .
the committee . the - the not exercise the powers which he has the Constitution of the Rules to train the group responsible for the examination of the Canadian and the advent of the the committee ?
the senator Carstairs :
the course .
in the time , however , he not there has the two members of the Prime Committee to sit in the committee , the business Social , the the senator Lavoie - Roux and I - the .
i souhaiterais that the the meetings the this issue , he is that , being the five members of the committee , the business Social , the honourable senators Corbin , Keon , DeWare and Beaudoin .
i have spoken the question with these senators , and they have been said that they like to the the examination .
the senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , I agree to comment the the senator Carstairs , this regard .
he is the the I reminded that report on the life and the death in my the " the university .
i have discovered that the students . the not forced to seek the information in the tab American .
the dissertations that they have continually indicate that they built . the the report .
this , the us will be needed contribution permanent in a field , vision .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . )
banks and Commerce
leave to the committee , to the situation . the system fiscal domestique and international
the Honourable Leo E . Kolber , pursuant to the opinion , the 18 November 99 , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade , though the review , to the in the report , the situation exists the the system fiscal domestique and international ;
that the documents and evidence collected the the subject to the years of the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament and the other document Parliamentary and evidence relevant the reports on the removal the the Committee ;
that the Committee be authorized to allow the heading the the deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible . the ;
that rule of practical consequently , the Committee be authorized to table a report interim the reports on the Canadian the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate . " no , and that obedience report be deposited have been tabled the the Senate ; and
that the Committee present its report final the the most final 31 December 2000 .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate . adjourned . the 1998 24 November 99 , the 13 at 1:30 . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 11
the 1998 24 November 99
the Honourable Rose - Marie Losier - Cool , Speaker Pro tempore
table of the dumping
Maxwell Tabled '
the Canadian privilege
notice
the Late the Jeannine S?guin - death of Omer Deslauriers
tributes
the tenth anniversary of the commitment to eliminate the poverty
business routine
business legal and Constitutional
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
aboriginal Peoples
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
energy , Environment and gas natural
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
privileges , settlement and Orders
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
introduction of the second report of the committee
introduction of the third report of the committee
finance Finance
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
notice of Motion ordonnant the the committee which the bill to the motion referred to the scinder the two
business legal and Constitutional
notice of Motion During the committee to engage the the staff
business Social , Science and Technology
banks and Commerce
energy , Environment and gas natural
notice of Motion During the committee to study of the issues relating to the mandate
notice of Motion During the committee to engage the the staff and the the place
the data the the census
introduction of Petitions
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the business foreign
the increase the the Estimates , remain in the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A ) , The of the opening of new celebrating
the justice
the Foreign Intergovernmental
the conditions of a next referendum Quebec - Effect impact of the government . the government
the economy
the Upholder the great Polish by the the business American - Government Policy the the government
the Foreign Intergovernmental
the Quebec - Conformity approach that the the institution . conditions regarding the meeting of a referendum
the Quebec - Effect conditions possible . a referendum - Government participation of the other provinces
the National Defence
the lobbying white the 1994 - Government Policy the the government
the replacement of the helicopters Sea King
the closure of the army Cornwallis - Government clawback of the windows comm?moratifs the Canadian chapelleSt. George' s
on business orders
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
second reading of Debate the the debate
referred to the substance of the bill to the " the committee
business Social , Science and Technology
leave to the committee , sitting , the time that the Senate
bill to the Canadian 99 on the implementation of the Canadian taxation tax
second reading
referred to the committee
the Canadian privilege
the Canadian the Chair
the freedom religious the China , report with the pactes international the the United Nations
inquiry - Adjourned the the debate
aboriginal Peoples
the board Royal the inquiry on the Aboriginal Peoples , Autorisation the the committee , to the recommendations and the ports , quiet and the evidence of the session 81 the the study at
business Social , Science and Technology
leave to the committee , to the state of the the prospects of future of the Agriculture
leave to the committee , to the the staff and the the place
leave to the committee , to the premature the the deliberations
the Senate
the 1998 24 November 99
the Chair . Chair . In at 1:30 , the Speaker pro tempore the " the Chair .
prayers .
the Canadian privilege
notice
the Honourable Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , you have received the Canadian a question of privilege that I have raised under the the rule 43 ( 5 ) the the Rules , the said : "
as the the longer a notice of the Canadian and sub ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) , the above , the Greffier the the Senate . the lower Transport and abuses the the board of each senator , the Ottawa , a copy of the opinion drafted and the Canadian translation .
i suppose that all the honourable the positive this notice .
the question of privilege to the drain in some media , the Government Soleil the Quebec and the Toronto Star the day , the Canadian the second array of the report of the committee Standing the the Transportation and the the communication the Canadian Divestiture the the industry air to the Canada .
today , the I have the intent of disability this issue of the time appropriate and the introduction that the case , r?f?r?e the the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules .
the Late the Jeannine S?guin - death of Omer Deslauriers
tributes
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , the motion with sadness that I have learned the Late deMme Jeannine S?guin , teacher of training .
Ms S?guin was considered as the one of the most steely pillars of the Francophonie local , national and international .
the Ontario speaking , the particular , coupled a leader of leadership and the Canada is the deuil the one woman strong the the hardest the education . language French , the the Maritimes the the existence of the West .
i have known personally Jeannine S?guin and I , realize today , pay for the commitment to the case speaking .
Ms S?guin the PC the Association of the teachers franco - beneficial , the Association Canadian - French - the Ontario and the Federation of the communities French and acadiennes the the Canada .
it is pan by the great determination , the ent?tement and a sense of the functioning policy context fine .
it was spent his life , the education , the Canadian promotion of the unity Canadian and the the development of the institutions ?ducatives the language French .
the year 1999 . Therefore the beginning of two major advocates of the Francophonie commissions .
the the spring , Omer Deslauriers we quittait .
this man , the the victims of her S?guin , the was distinguished by the support the Canadian , the the access to the French beneficial to the services of education and the health .
we are now , in deuil the two people who have Women our community .
the tenth anniversary of the commitment to eliminate the poverty
the Honourable Erminie J . Cohen :
however , the the place . the pressure , the poverty , the children . is increased the 60 per the the years of the last decade .
the , 460 $ children about the in a situation despair .
our efforts to do away the poverty , the children . was d?plorables .
yesterday evening , I have been the one vigile the silent the Canadian Flamme renovation to pleurer the inability of the Parliament of the Canada . respect to release the the respect to the children poor .
i refer today , the honourable senators , the the name of the hundreds of thousands of children of our country rich the bitter the living in the poverty , the kind of the school the stomach vacuum and the living in the the housing d?labr?s .
they forsaken the the government to meet the honourable the the Parliament and the the promise , but this promise the summer abusing .
the the years of the last decade , the rate of unemployment rate . was point? the the doigt as the one of the major causes of the number growing the children alive in the poverty .
yet , then , the rate of unemployment the Belgian the cut , the poverty , the children . continued to increase .
why ?
with this feat amount , it is the centre , the paying and the v?tir , the Hon. child .
the children poor are faced all the newspapers , the same sad fact .
how can the people centrer their attention of the learning when they live in the the conditions , d?plorables ?
they not have not be on a pioneer . justice .
the widespread the the warning of dire , the bad health , the behaviour antisocial and the the delay in the learning of the hieroglyphics .
this is unacceptable in a country , the deficit of the one of the life higher .
the rate of poverty , the Canada is almost bashful .
the the years of the last decade , honourable senators , the government has cut - the nicotine the fund paid to the provinces for the the needs basic - to the services social , for the the housing examinations , for the the care of health and the the education .
the reform of the assurance - unemployment one particular , women the the eligibility the the benefits , earthy the most colourful level in the history of the last .
the the eliminated the deficit to the background of the program social .
in the , our political Finance . Ottenheimer forsaken the children , and help to the years of the past years .
the the direction of a new millennium , I implore the government . the Canadian promise the " and children , promise the not have been made stay letter morte .
he is the one ray of hope : the recent announcement of a shot the six million . $ in the housing social .
add , there , and we and affectons - and the the investment to long term , the the support of the income and the the services regarding the the children to the latest the condition of the fault - free , the remanier the assurance - job . in att?nuant the requirements and the legal the number of the people eligible .
let serious the role drives the the government , the Canadian and provincial and the Canadian benefit of the program social .
the discussions should bring the not the the share of the powers between the government , and the provinces , but rather on the the the governments can do , the , for help the people in the need , because he is the council that the children of today , are the leaders and the taxpayers of tomorrow .
they deserve . as the
we have a requirement to them and make the Canada .
business routine
business legal and Constitutional
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
the Honourable Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , pursuant to the article 104 the the Rules and the Senate , I have the honour to table the Prime report of the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional , the the Estimates incurred by the committee during the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report found in the Journals of the Senate . today , the motion
aboriginal Peoples
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
the Honourable Charlie Watt :
honourable senators , pursuant to the article 104 the the Rules and the Senate , I have the honour to table the Prime report of the committee on the Canadian and aboriginal Peoples , the the Estimates , the committee has encourues for the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report found in the Journals of the Senate . today , the motion
energy , Environment and gas natural
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , pursuant to the article 104 the the Rules and the Senate , I have the honour to table the Prime report of the committee on the Canadian the energy , the the Environment and the the resources natural , the the Estimates , the committee has encourues for the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report found in the Journals of the Senate . today , " .
privileges , settlement and Orders
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
the Honourable Jack Austin :
honourable senators , pursuant to the article 104 the the Rules and the Senate , I have the honour to table the Prime report of the committee on the Canadian and Orders , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules , the the Estimates , the committee has encourues for the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report found in the Journals of the Senate . aujourd , today . )
introduction of the second report of the committee
the Honourable Jack Austin , the Canadian the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules , the the report following :
the 1998 24 November 99
the Committee on the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules , the honour to present its
REPORT REPORT
your committee , pursuant to the article 108 the the Rules and the Canadian the Canadian the Honourable Senator Taylor , sponsor of the bill to the Canadian public sector . intitulant : " Act amend the Act establish the human moral the board of the former the Canadian prepared Canadian of the Church morave the North the , recommend that the article 1,106,000 the the Rules not to apply not to the bill to the .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
JACK AUSTIN
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Austin , the study of the report is placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
introduction of the third report of the committee
the Honourable Jack Austin , the Canadian the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules , the the report following :
the 1998 24 November 99
the Committee on the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules , the honour to present its
third REPORT
your committee , though the the Senate . In October 1998 , to a question of privilege raised by the Honourable Senator Kinsella regarding a witness the the messages the the committee Standing the the Agriculture and the the forestry , the the , by terrorism the the rule 92 ( 2 ) Edward order , he be authorized to be the the meetings to camera closed to hear , the evidence .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
JACK AUSTIN
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the ?
the senator Austin :
we , into the , with your leave .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
the .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Austin , the study of the report is placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
finance Finance
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , pursuant to the article 104 the the Rules and the Senate , I have the honour to table the Prime report of the committee on the Canadian and money Finance , the the Estimates incurred by the committee to the years of the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report found in the Journals of the Senate . today , the motion
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
notice of Motion ordonnant the the committee which the bill to the motion referred to the scinder the two
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 25 November 99 , I move :
business legal and Constitutional
notice of Motion During the committee to engage the the staff
the Honourable Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 25 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the technical , clerical and services of counsel , clerical , clerical the board or other elements necessary to examine the the bills of the , the substance of the Canadian law and the Estimates budget , he have been d?f?r?es .
notice of Motion During the committee to allow the premature the the deliberations , the the average electronic
the Honourable Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 25 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the power to allow the premature the the deliberations public by the media of information electronic , the manner in bother the least possible . the .
business Social , Science and Technology
notice of Motion During the committee to sit in the time that the Senate
the Honourable Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 25 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , though the Senate for the committee , the Senate . the Monday 29 November , the the traditional 30 November and the the 1998 1 December 1998 , and that the application of the rule 95 ( 4 ) the the Rules the sitting , this regard .
banks and Commerce
notice of Motion During the committee to sit in the time that the Senate
the Honourable Leo E . Kolber :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and the Honourable the the rule 58 ( 1 ) , " the the Rules , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade , though the Senate to 15 at 1:30 today , the same if the Senate seat to the time , that , and that the application of the rule 95 ( 4 ) the the Rules the sitting , this regard .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
leave granted , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , then , I ask the the chairman of the committee why he is necessary to sit today , the
the authority , the leave , but we want to the in any is the the so important ?
the senator Kolber :
the committee , the Banking undertakes today , the examination of the problems occur by the gains in capital the the Canada and we begin to the little of time to the complete the us comptons complete our report preliminary before the end of the year .
the professor Reuven Brenner , the the actions the one of the documents the fact authority , the federal , the same . dissidents , in spite of the notice of short , we , we have the and the " Ottawa appear before our committee .
if we want to our work , we must begin our review the the most soon .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
however , I wish to the the chairs the wish to their committee . sitting , the the Senate seat the us to a hat the long that the - the .
it is calling , and ends the witnesses , in a situation embarrassing .
the work of the honourable the this chamber . priority .
the program of the committee be a Formula , as the the the bloodstream the the honourable before the people . assume the part of the , the chairman of the or the member of the committee .
the the side - the , the least , a contingency - and I accept that is that the case , today , we do we not very enclins the giving the authority and the WTO that the honourable leaving the House , the motion of the the people should be when the Senate seat .
the senator Kolber :
honourable senators , I do I think that the country responsibility first , the be here , the House .
we have also the responsibility of the country . .
he not we have the few days to the make .
this are to the most of the experts , namely in their field .
honourable senators , I am in either the blood decision .
if the Honourable Senator the in the means meet our leader to change the victims tell the country Committee , the .
the the not want to the us put our work , the .
however , if we are the matter to the the us the guts , the " we give the the least the possibility of the , to the
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
honourable senators , if the chairman of the committee having the the difficulties with the victims who , is concerned , I wish to the island , he , either a place , the Monday or the Friday , or in terms of the week .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
energy , Environment and gas natural
notice of Motion During the committee to study of the issues relating to the mandate
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 25 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian the energy , the the Environment and the the resources natural , in Conformity with the rule 86 ( 1 ) prospered ) the the Rules , the power to study of the the biological remote occasionally the Procedural the the energy , the the Environment and the the resources natural the General of the Canada ; and
that the committee to report , the Senate to the most final 31 March 2000 .
notice of Motion During the committee to engage the the staff and the the place
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 25 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian the energy , the the Environment and the the resources natural the technical , clerical and services of counsel , clerical , clerical the board or other elements necessary to examine the bills of the , the substance of the Canadian law and the Estimates budget , he have been removed ; and
that the committee be authorized to the place to adjourn the Canada and the the foreign to the purpose of such reviews .
notice of Motion During the committee to allow the premature the the deliberations , the the average electronic
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 25 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian the energy , the the Environment and the the resources natural the technical , to the heading the the deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible . the .
the data the the census
introduction of Petitions
the Honourable Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the honour to present a petition the the Ontario Genealogical Society , the the summer signed by 190 the and the request said :
... the petitioners concurrence the Parliament of the one bill to the preserve the data the the marked the following 1901 , the the powers to the Archives Finance and the end these responses and those of the marked ult?rieurs the Canadian section of the public , the end of 92 years , the the motion presently consistent the the many provisions legislation on the protection of the information personal and the the normal , into the the time at the
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the business foreign
the increase the the Estimates , remain in the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A ) , The of the opening of new celebrating
the Honourable Terry Stratton :
honourable senators , I have a question to question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the the beginning of the week , we have had the great pleasure , meeting of the representatives of the Council of the Treasury to examine the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A ) .
the , we have discussed the the credits the the Department of the Foreign Affairs and the the International Covenant .
the Canada has the open or the possible . " open the the celebrating or the the Detroit in the world ?
i believe that the the ships a new Embassy in Berlin the reason , the transfer of the capital of the Germany the Bonn the Berlin .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the senator imagine that I do body not the the information .
however , I am entretiendrai with the Minister and I bring the information to the senator and the this chamber tomorrow , the the beginning of the week next .
the senator Stratton :
i , determine grateful to the Leader of the government .
i believe that the Canadian embassy the the Embassy in Berlin costs that 71 million . $ , and the cost of increased .
however , he remains ever a trou the 60 million . $ , in the meaning that we know the reason , these million .
we have asked the the UN the the representatives of the board .
he would be the be preferable that the Honourable Leader legal these information of the Council of the Treasury and that he and answer to the Senate , because I am counts the knowledge , what are carried the 60 million . $ .
the senator Tkachuk :
it is a very beautiful residence .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I will ask these information to the name of the Honourable Senator and I rapporterai the the Senate , line that I am in the Canadian to the
the justice
the cost of the program of control of the weapons the gun - Government of the the Minister
the Honourable David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , the Canadian the same meeting , yesterday morning , Mr. Neville , the the Council of the Treasury , the messages the the committee for the Canadian the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates , in particular , the program of control of the weapons the gun .
i would have asked a number of the issues of the reason for the 35 million . $ additional were required , the Canadian and financial the 40,000 million . $ had already been discussed in the budget price .
Mr. . Neville the then seemed the cost of the program of control of the weapons the gun been 1995 .
i have I - the summer upset the highest the figure of 309 million . $ .
the government should be the the amount bashful , the motion . the number of Parliament and the urbane the the program of control of the weapons the gun the same predicted in 1994 and 1995 , the knowledge that the estimates were very the OECD the Canadian reality and that the program cost of the hundreds of $ the $ .
the government has refused all our protests the " that we do did not the event we talked .
the Minister , Mr. Rock , the said that the cost would the only 85 million . $ and the , for the Canadian length of the program of control , the Canadian 1995 , 2001 .
we in this is the 309 million . $ and the not . not heard .
the Leader of the government is the the well , the the the Minister Rock is responsible for this huge mistake of Arriving the cost of the hundreds of $ the $ the the taxpayers Canadian ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I have a section down different the Canadian response provided by the high bureaucrat .
the senator Forrestall :
why not accept the not the responsibility , in the case ?
the senator Boudreau :
i know that the process of control does the the difficulties .
the senator Tkachuk :
the the the well indicated that there has three years .
the senator Boudreau :
in fact , a review the summer pre the May the and the the recommendations . was made to improve the process .
the three quarters of these recommendations . was Province .
the treatment of the CCN the control . the most effective .
the the information , I remember , supported 500 for the d?livr?s and 35 $ weapons the gun are parcels each months .
it is enhanced not . " the " the question that the Honourable Senator has raised , but it makes is that the process . was examined , the Canadian and improvements the summer concerning and that the system , away .
the senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , the motion . the same history .
they have said that is the the Minister .
i ask the " the Leader of the government to the Senate , is responsible and the effectiveness that , the course , the Minister is still accountable , but that he is the in all these problems .
he not there has never the minister , because the the the , in the one , he bet .
the senator Forrestall :
hear !
the senator Tkachuk :
the the not personally not a Resignation , the motion that he considers that he not . not responsible .
the then is responsible to the public . the bureaucracy ?
this is possible . .
the Minister could be the be the " , the the motion responsible as it . states , what cost to be paid to a if serious mistake ?
why not the the not resigned ?
the the not . not responsible , the then is responsible to the public . the democracy ?
the - be the Minister should the the authority to the Canadian a commission official to the frigate the parliamentary .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I understand the concerns of the senator as the the Estimates whenever Conducted in the part of the program .
the Honourable Terry Stratton :
honourable senators , I have a question Supplementary the question .
the government must surely have now , " the the the will the cost Processing .
will be looking bracket million , 800 million or a billion . $ ?
the persistent - you not we do a view of the cost financial meet ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I bring certainly the Canadian . with the Minister responsible and will be the Canadian House of all the information that I receive .
the Foreign Intergovernmental
the conditions of a next referendum Quebec - Effect impact of the government . the government
the Honourable Jean - Claude Rivest :
honourable senators , then , the Canadian . concern to the issues economic and Technology , the government . the Canada has chosen artificiellement , in a the the talk improvisations , the eyes the the Prime the Canadian . referendum .
why the government . the Canada has the announcement the the time , this , bring this issue of the prior to perform the the arguments policy , the Canada ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , if the government ' Justice appropriate to express the opinion on a question . fundamental that the the us about the Canadian lacked is absolutely necessary .
the clarity is expected as the comments of the nature of the question that the comments of the result required to the the process d?marre .
as the knowledge what is the best at the privilege this issue and the deal publicly for actually clear the opinion of the government , I guess the no time . is better that a place , since the not . not to the Canadian , the
the government and the Prime Minister feel the - be the the motion appropriate to conclude clear as now , the Canadian , the the government . the Canada , these issues . important to the place . expect the be in the gun the Canadian campaign .
the senator Rivest :
honourable senators , the short term , I do know that if the Minister of the concept , but the government . the Prime Minister of the Canada . Jessiman this issue ?ce at the side , unfortunately turn to the advantage of the option sovereigntist the the Quebec .
i do know that what lecturele government ' retient the Hon. the .
Onparle . the Canadian lacked the this issue .
the Minister etle government . the Canada . - they know that leurinitiative - making it is unilaterally - the way of cimenter the cohesion the the forces federalists the the Quebec , restricts unfortunately , the confusion the most of the defence the option Canadian , the Quebec ?
the Opposition the the Liberal Party of the Quebec , Mr. Jean Charest , the motion dissoci? publicly , this afternoon , afternoon , the the Assembly national , the the government decision by the Prime Minister of the Canada .
is the the the the government think that this manner unilateral the way in the debate referendum strong the case of the unity Canadian ?
the would the the not proper that the government . the Canada , the government . the Quebec and those of the other provinces fail a cold the opening and the understanding to convince the utmost the choosing the seaway the the option Canadian ?
some Quebecers the winter , too , core to the path achieving , as the option Canadian .
he not be not give the arguments to the people .
the the , the one referendum the the Quebec , the time , this initiative placerait the Liberal Quebec , a chamber , Jean Chr the the other .
jean Charest and the Liberal Party of the Quebec . editors too , what side look !
in soulevant record of the Canadian the plebiscite , at the Main the - speaking of the forces federalists the the Quebec , the Liberal Party of the Quebec , strong - that the case of the unity Canadian ?
in taking unilaterally , the d?stabilise the Liberal Party of the Quebec and the forces federalists celebration .
in January or February 2000 , I hope that is unfortunate incident will forgotten .
the Minister could the the editorials the chamber . the cabinet , in particular his first minister and the Minister of the Foreign Intergovernmental , the Republic of investigations the the actions which anchor the case of the feeling benefiting the path to the Quebec ?
the the - the not trying to hire the chamber , working of the positive and colon with the whole of the federalists Quebec to strengthen the option federalist the the Quebec , the place . the unnoticed , as the the wish to the plight this week ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , he is clear that the Prime Minister as the question is the fundamental to the future of the country .
the opinion on the referendums and the separation is dynamic .
the the point basic , he not there has not the Star .
the respect to the utmost the voteraient the one might referendum , if the Canada and the Quebec . the misfortune the in the one another , we have a role in harmony and a difference the sincerity to do the so that the question that clear .
he is the sincerity this opinion , and I believe that the Prime Minister that the the the need to do know .
some say that the government . the Canada is being a simple observer , a " voyeur the , in the plebiscite the the d?roulerait the the Quebec , the so , the Place greatly to confusion and if the results are steely .
the senator Rivest :
is the the the the Leader of the government to the Senate does the by the answer to the very hon. the Minister of the Canada , Mr. Pierre Elliott Trudeau , the Canadian the plebiscite of 1980 , not the the one voyeur ?
the senator Boudreau :
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , we attempting to determine the extent to the government . the Canada , play a role in the process referendum the the Quebec .
we have received the the face conflicting .
if the government . is not satisfied the Canadian . refer and unequivocally by the Assembly national , will be there superposer his own question ?
the manner frequently the word " lacked the .
in the analysis , the clinics if the question is enough clear ?
will the the the government . the Canada or the Assembly national the the Quebec ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , in the drop decision that it has made , the Court Supreme the indicated that the government . the Canada has indeed a role in harmony in the process .
i have heard , yesterday evening , the the the Prime Minister had said , the period of the issues . the other place .
the evidence of the matter . , the the study , as the Prime Minister of the indicated , but I am sure that he will know , asked the Government of the government , the the will be the the make .
the the time , that , I am very pleased to you to the Canadian details that I do I , to the day .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
honourable senators , I remind the the Minister that the Court Supreme not the record or judgment or decision , the the was a simple opinion , and that it is the the Canadian guidelines to any government .
the Court Supreme the summer called the the courts on three issues domain in a reference to the government . the Canada .
i remember , the the Minister that the province of Quebec . refused to the present the Canadian Court Supreme and that this last , had load a lawyer , represent the province .
the the three issues , the courts . " to the " .
unfortunately , the my opinion , the Court Supreme the topic outrepass? the mandate , d?cidant the establishing some lines guidelines the Canadian . and the result , what the people are .
the my opinion , it has matching to the Canadian l?gitimer the separation .
the case of the Court Supreme , because the it has established the the lines guidelines and the the rules on the way , the approach referendum should be d?rouler and the the the should get the the result not the not looks to the Canada , he is much for the first time legitimate the subject of the possibility of a separate .
i believe that the Court Supreme the outrepass? that the mandate .
the entire to the basis of the federal , we said , he not what the the expression acceptable , not the - the not to the government gets that he not goes the Canadian credibility that the Canadian response to this issue and not apply to the the utmost decide ?
what the should the " question to the utmost , the the government , the
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , if the " in just been the that , I presume that the question is worded by the Assembly national the the Quebec .
i do believe that the the government , criteria put the the people Quebec a question concerning the Canadian separation .
in the the concerns of the Canadian the Court Supreme , the motion of the Canadian opinion .
the Honourable Senator Lynch - Staunton has given the opinion on the comments made by the Court Supreme .
i think that it is dying that these remarks . was very useful and that they have given a indication of the way , the Canadian north that their government involved in a precedent process .
he is the hope that this event that the mission have the
in the public . the utmost and the the Canadian , so that the ever . the Canadian from the campaign .
the economy
the Upholder the great Polish by the the business American - Government Policy the the government
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the year , the the government has refused the proposal of merger of the great Banking Canadian .
we know the the this decision policy . caused the the torts irr?parables the the economy Canadian .
the government . the not happen . book white or the bill to the the lib?rera our major institutions financial the Canadian job regulatory the reason they are grants , and that , for their to the support the Competition Act , providing international .
in the Financial Post of today , the Peter Godsoe , the chairman and CEO General imminently did the Canadian Bank Power , the concern deep the the future of the great Polish Canadian .
Mr. . Godsoe the said that our great Polish linking be able support the Competition the the best business of the Americas and that our political government . the not the p?naliser , but , the occasional the be anti the the foreign .
the Leader of the government to the Senate may , he we say what policy public the government provides to the place to do the so that some of acknowledgement of our great business remain Canadian and not be not all achet?es by the the business American ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , with the marketing of the economy , we have observed a global the the investment American in the business Canadian .
meanwhile , he is the in a global the the investment Canadian in the the business American .
the investment will the the two , the
i do believe that the the numbers the scope of varying , but I am confident the the specific the the Honourable Senator as the I , whatever .
some people are very causing the the investment American in some sectors of our economy .
however , the other areas would the happy to receive the the investment , the important to concern .
i think that particular , the the business of the province of origin of the Honourable Senator Oliver , the motion also my province of origin .
the senator Oliver :
honourable senators , the week , the Peter Lougheed , a former prime minister of the Alberta and a scene the business did , the single the Canadian , bless , the diminution of our sovereignty , because of the drop of the value of our dollar and the the negative excessive the the tax .
the Canadian and 7 articles in our media , some ministers important to the cabinet concerned that the Prime Minister . the obstruction the one debate on the future of our economy .
Mr. . Godsoe the requested to the government . the lancera a debate national the the role of our great business .
the Leader of the government to the Senate lancera the one such debate ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the Prime Minister is this . the day , the other place and the answer to the issues of the subject .
the same , he is possible . the Canadian . the so , the other place . , the
the the the motion of the increase the the investment American in the business Canadian , I quote that , in some cases , he is the person - be held in the concern , but that , in the other , these projects are the transition .
in some regions of the Canada and some sectors of our economy , not have not have the investment the somewhat source that is that , the investment American idle the point appointed .
the Foreign Intergovernmental
the Quebec - Conformity approach that the the institution . conditions regarding the meeting of a referendum
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , my question is supplementary to those who have been raised physicians the the death of the government level of a precedent will referendum the the Quebec .
he is clear , the following the comments accountable by the Leader of the by the Prime Minister bearer Dion , the the government provides to the the government .
what form cognizant these measures ?
the Glenney the Canadian a bill , the one resolution or the one solution statement of principle ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , he is clear that the government think serious the other . the government .
in the , the Prime Minister has said yesterday evening in a interview public , the I have had the opportunity to hear , the the government would take the the government as the Canadian lacked the Canadian . .
the Prime Minister has spoken of a bill , the one resolution or the one does the principle which would the by the or a place a supplementary , honourable the the government .
the Prime Minister has said that the discussions , poursuivaient as the Canadian , the " and that he not the not in the , for the moment , the " how the government reopened the make concerns the point of the .
i do I do the " the the the Prime Minister .
the Quebec - Effect conditions possible . a referendum - Government participation of the other provinces
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , my second question to the " sur , the " which the Minister has spoken .
the specific , I wish to the the provinces involved in the discussions , the .
in the answer to the Court Supreme the the Committee of the government , he is the Canadian all the partners to the public . the Confederation .
i , I correct the consequence that , the the opinion of the government , the " to all the partners to be the the ten provinces and the government , the
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the Prime Minister has made reference to the the discussions , the one of colleagues and the - the .
the the time , I do know that the extent to the discussions are corridors , far .
in the , yesterday , I have said that I do would not surprised if the provinces , parties also to express their views of the Act , the issues of lacked .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , the period of the issues of 30 minutes . the fragments .
the leave is the it leave of pursuing ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the National Defence
the lobbying white the 1994 - Government Policy the the government
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I wish to the , yes , but , the lobbying white the Canadian Defence of 1994 remains the purpose of Government final the the government of the the issues related to the Defence .
the the , the in the the changes , the Parliament , the the summer advised or the the the in the the consultation public , this regard ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I believe that the senator I was asked the same question last , the afternoon .
the replacement of the helicopters Sea King
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I wish question . the general , the Minister .
there has the in a change the political ?
i am concerned , the helicopters .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , as we in the discussions physicians , the program is the great priority of the Minister of the National Defence .
it some , the motion of this is my support and that I encourage .
i hope that we reach the extent of the somewhat the Canadian demonstrates in a future speculation .
the senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , yesterday , the the other place , the Secretary Parliamentary the the Minister of the National Defence , said , that the the subject :
... it is the the board of the Minister and the motion to the the the standing of the Canadian decision .
the the said that is the one priority .
why the Minister . the - the not a decision ?
is the the because the the , the one change in the political the Defence ?
the notes the the Minister of this regard adverse very clearly the calendar to the replacement of the Sea King consortium the ship the ships .
that the - that that ?
why a decision . the it is the decision , if the purpose of the needs . priority and the very the the board of the Minister for the the the paraphe ?
the the fund a board to the deal of this issue .
i wish to the the the in university for the function a board the not the way .
this is as high a concrete voiture the path of strings the the case where it is like to the use of the by the .
what is the answer ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I understand the concern to my honourable friend .
the senator Forrestall :
i do the opinion . .
the senator Boudreau :
obviously , I greetings the representations to the Honourable Minister , the " redistribute the year , the that remains the main priority .
he is the hope that we reach the extent of the Canadian and results positive in a future speculation .
the senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , the estle 4 November , I was asked to the last time , the " is the .
the length of life esp?r?e the the Sea King the touch , 2005 .
he will eight years , the headwind , the the fact that the three years , we do we no helicopter .
he is the one some of the solutions .
i wish to the so , yes , but , the government will send our ships , overseas . helicopters .
will be borrowing the the helicopters the Canadian Shipping American ?
the Department will be empowered a place program of modernization - God we in spite - the the Sea King , the the person - be to the ships and the vessels , threatened ?
that will be the government and when will be imposed the death to the subject ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the Minister is the concept of all the solutions the the Universit the the , there was the the the Honourable Senator has traffic .
he is hope that the announcement will the " is the the most earlier can .
this is the answer to better and the most full that I can give the the Honourable Senator the the stadium - the .
the closure of the army Cornwallis - Government clawback of the windows comm?moratifs the Canadian chapelleSt. George' s
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , the week , the I have asked a question to the Leader of the government to the Senate on the clawback of the windows of the chapelle the Canadian army Cornwallis .
he has answered that he is the most of the in the capital of the Nova Scotia Nova and that he was a proper the businesses the windows . the most of people can the look .
i do I do have forced the case , far , the time , that the
this deal I was not talking .
the the fact , that , all the tr?sors the the regions of urban the Canadian Nova Scotia Nova the ability to come . should the people . the widespread the Halifax ?
if the " followed this sense to the end , he would be the be accommodation the unveiling of ?vang?line the Grand - Pr? the Halifax to the one more a number of people so , the .
the Honourable Senator Boudreau , the lives now , Halifax , should be the the motion offusquant to all the only the haligoniens the suggested that the the windows should be d?m?nag?s the Cornwallis the Halifax because the the , the most of the in this city .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I do I do the so cassant , in my answer , the the Honourable Senator the the left to the
the question , the the place where the coalition the windows was the all for instance d?saffect? been a year , not having been used to a time or two years , the year .
the senator Comeau :
honourable senators , I have a last the supplementary .
i know that the Minister Eggleton , the former Veterans the are things , Cornwallis and the people paid to the fen?tres , not hurt the information to the subject of the promise that the Department of the National Defence their the beginning of reservations the windows a time , facilities in the .
i hope that the Minister of tighten serious the this issue .
the the the others , the present the the next election in Halifax - Halifax - Western , I said , the - the not be not allow this thing the judgment .
as I like to centre of Halifax , the one of the most attractive cities of the Canada , as I believe that the coastal not urban the Canadian Nova Scotia Nova not have the WTO the losing their tr?sors .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I do I do the agreement with the senator , a point , but I , I on a place .
that the Canadian city of Halifax is the one of the most attractive cities of the Canada , I do I do the agreement .
i find that is the Canadian , Manitoba city of the world .
the senator Kinsella :
why ?
that reprochez - you to Ottawa ?
the senator Boudreau :
the the the motion of the principle which it concerned the senator , I do think that the us stopped that the the Heritage the Canadian Nova Scotia Nova the centralis? ; I r?examinerai . the question .
the senator Forrestall :
you , you phrase the meantime - God ?
the senator Boudreau :
i dreaming in addition to put the I am pr?senterais the Canadian future election .
on business orders
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
second reading of Debate the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Kirby , seconded by the Honourable Senator Lewis , seconded the Canadian second reading of the bill to the C - 6 , the motion to facilitate and the use of Trade Ministerial the virtue of information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of the coverage to bring or put the the information and the the sophisticated and the Act , the Act , and the the Canada , the Act , the Statutory Instruments and the Act , the review of the legislation .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I rise to the subject of the bill to the C - 6 .
as you sell the plight , honourable senators , he not to a not the one Presented and good and properly form the the subject .
this is a bill to the the Journals been a number of the the Order and the the fact , the Canadian . good discussions .
i commend the mover of the bill to the , the senator Kirby , and that the honourable Murray , Finestone , Oliver and Keon , the the intervention we have a kingdom the understanding of the Canadian law .
the the editorials , I have revived that they appuyaient in the whole the bill to the , but that they entretenaient however , concerns soulign?es the particular , the opinion of Motion the most earlier today , by the senator Murray .
i speak , the the process surrounding the study of the bill to the C - 6 .
in quality of Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate , I must recognize that I have the host the the Senate passed to the committee .
the the comments I have been made , and I am sure that is was the case for all the honourable senators , by the the witnesses potential the wish to the the committee , the some of concerned , the wording present the the bill to the and reflect the the opportunity to indicate the improvements that they sharpest , the
as I , I mentioned before the some of the honourable senators , are define the the debate on the bill to the people expressed the the reserves similar .
the objective that I to the question of the Leader Deputy is the resulting the the the the bill to the Senate passed to the committee to the the witnesses so that reached and that we can proceed to the reading next , the process legislative .
however , I acknowledge the need to do the " a debate on the extent legislation and a notice of Motion the summer the in the Canadian scinder the bill to the .
he is the same in the the comments of the senator Finestone the country side of the House of the subject of the study of a subamendment , the bill to the .
i have discussed with my counterpart , the senator Kinsella , Chief Deputy of the Opposition , as the rules the article 38 of the Rules , to the struggle the same a ground of agreement on the way , the should deal . C - the , the government . the concerns expressed by the honourable .
this last , the the Canadian telecommunications the Canadian Charter of lies a settlement the Canadian the Canadian aid is the Canadian law would be I point of first , the " the Senate today , for the the honourable that the " the fact , my proposal .
if the other senators want to the the comments on my proposal , the motion perfect .
i , I inviterai the senator Kinsella , we do the Canadian and conditions comments on the proposal , for the period Statements the the issues and observations - the way to the the the honourable that the " the armed the the the the existence and why .
the bill to the C - 6 , is the reading of the second reading and the ages that he be a to the Opposition that he , the that the " is that we doubled the the time , we look the matters proposals the amendments .
the my opinion , he would individual to the make the power , the the deliberations of the committee respect to the bill to the .
this is my I do the technique , the not . not a motion , but rather a view , a motion summer .
if the honourable put the idea , I speak their to the leave massive .
this is the the I suggested the subject . C - the .
however , before the I would my suggestion , I wish to the the author of the motion and the Main considered to the Opposition should get the leave of the Canadian speak .
the CHST the Leader Deputy of the government , I am prepared to give this leave to facilitate the things and find a ground of agreement to the Senate .
i should also point that is not . not the first time that a proposal of the kind . tabled the the I ' that the .
i know that the senator Frith and the senator Doody , when they were all the two leaders assistants the their party respectif , they arise done , the
this is the not a situation which should the my opinion , represent often .
he is a result of a attempt to do preliminary the bill to the " the Senate . in either the environment necessary to hear , reservations concerns the Hon. the .
honourable senators , I move , the the outcome of our differences , the the bill to the C - 6 , referred to the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , with education . the in the fact rapportle 2 December 1998 , both consistently : the Prime the Canadian of 1 and the second , the parties 2 , 5 , the bill to the ; that the debate on the second reading that the by the following and led to stop ; and that the examination supplementary the the bill to the Senate pre the committee whole .
i do I do take the motion . the following .
we do things generally not the Canadian the " the Senate , but it sounds enough to our way of the to the human not be held in the in areas .
however , I ask the the senator Kinsella , we do its opinion , the the way of a question or the one point , and I congratulate , the the opportunity to the CEO the my turn .
the other senators both the - be the sincerity to the subject , including the senator Kirby and the senator Murray .
the Canadian conclusion , this discussion or the the debate , I ask the Canadian leave of the Canadian motion of the honourable I have given the great lines .
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , as just the the make participant the senator Hays , I , have expressed the the bill to the , I ask the leave of the date , this proposal .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Murray :
honourable senators , I thank the Leader Deputy of the government . the comments and the the proposal .
as it . the very record that , he is the " the Senate . support generally for the principle and the objective of the bill to the .
however , he is the Canadian and problems facing the fact which the Canadian of the in their words during the Canadian second reading .
i can say , few . the I have the " and I , saying the entire reserve the the opinion of Motion to the I put the honourable today , the
he I , quite indiff?rent that we renvoyions the bill to the or , as the the proposed the senator , the subject of the bill to the " the committee . week .
if the senator Hays think that we , the so will the effect of speed the examination of the bill to the and , in particular , the study of some problems , the summer raised , I , amending my support total .
section that , he is the one point that I do I do . " including the
the Leader Deputy the the proposed a date for the report of the committee ?
the senator Hays :
the senator Murray :
this is that the I thought to hear .
i am going .
the senator Kirby , the chairman of the committee , I was invited yesterday , attending to a meeting of the committee , leadership with him and the honourable Carstairs , LeBreton .
the this meeting , we have spent in itself the list of the witnesses potential , the motion ? " - that the people who have expressed the desire to the present the the committee for agreeing their views of the Act , bill to the .
as the chairman of the committee could the course , the list is long .
i have said , this meeting that I am int?ressais more , if I can I express the - to the quality that the Canadian requirements .
i wish ensure the the the the major points of the members views and plain the full .
i have found that he not . " - be not necessary to hear , who , they expressed the desire to the present the us .
this is that the the senator Kirby , allowing the task unpleasant the attempt to the function some of the not have not need to be heard .
this is still difficult .
i wish to understand that is an a travestissement the country , the Canadian try to do enhanced the study of the subject of the bill to the by the committee before the 2,500 December and that this exposerait with the the Senate and the committee to the toughest criticism .
honourable senators , the other sponsors the - be wished to the subject .
i do I overlooked no objection , in principle , the courts now , the Canadian the subject of the bill to the and the make to the bill to the in committee whole a time that the committee will the report , the Senate .
the government is that the things testing .
however , the the person be sure the acceptance a subamendment , r?soudrait the problems , the summer raised by the particular in the area of the care of health , I would be the the the us the Banking and the the the us the renvoyions the Canadian House of the House of time to the it can the study the the ajournementdu 17 December .
honourable senators , such are the parameters of the situation is that I have see .
the chairman or the other members of the committee . the honourable .
the Honourable Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I have I also need to the leave of the Senate to take the honourable , resulting the event my remarks put order to the the debate on the reading of the second reading , the the I do I do the intent of the .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Kirby :
honourable senators , as the usual , the question because the the senator Murray and I - the we all of the Opposition the cabinet the one the Minister of the Maritimes , I am in full agreement with him on the the the the the said .
in some cases , the affinit?s regional are many more dramatic that the affinit?s political .
the fact is that the many witnesses . " to appear before the committee .
that the " raises the subject of the bill to the " a committee whole or the the committee , the business Social , the course , I Committee introduce two reports , I can the .
the two options we administration .
when the senator Murray said that he is continually the question , I believe that he timely the feeling that we must be to the us dealing exactly the event , knowing the the the concerns of care of health , and I am the agreement with him .
in the motion that the motion of Senator Hays , he is clear that , the important , a date clear . arr?t?e , the importance is that we entamions our work at the
he would be the committee sitting , starting the afternoon , Monday , the in the evening , and that he , the so Tuesday , Wednesday .
the the my opinion of Motion .
the the victims of the senator Murray , I believe that we must begin to examine the question to the
as it . " , if the committee did make the Canadian conclusion that a subamendment , the bill to the was justified , the as the , I believe that he would a that the Senate refer the bill to the " the House of the House of time to the it . examine the the break the Christmas .
in the whole , I am the agreement with the senator Murray .
i do I do the state of the substance of the bill to notice of the senator Hays , the condition that we can remove the reference to the date and the just sell , by letter or by a settlement of the honourable , the the committee chair the bill to the opportunity and the one way effective .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
i believe that we have sought and found a model who recueille the consent of the disability and the the Opposition to the Senate .
i believe that we should refer today , the bill to the " the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology .
the the motion of the the the committee to the work and the report with adequate , enrolled that he has all the potential of the the witnesses that he finds necessary to print .
as the question . was raised in the debate , the proposal recommendation that the committee considering the present a report , both parties or two reports separate not the not so , the .
the committee sonderait the opinion of the members and the court then .
we are doing the the normal parliamentarians that require the participation of the other place .
i am in the Canadian , the the Opposition not opposera no barriers to do know , the other place . a good report . was prepared and a good decision taken by the Senate .
the the the motion of the Orders , would be I have the honourable , I would be the introduction a motion , the least , a place , not expect speak on the question .
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , I should be the be careful that the honourable the the side - the are prepared to amend the motion , to the formal the reference to the date of thirteen the the report and , the the same look , removing the Committee on the committee whole .
having heard the honourable Murray and Kinsella , I believe that is not . not necessary to us .
the result , I accept that the motion . contains not the kind of the
if the motion . the the senator Kinsella , in Cuba , I do I will else not , I am the agreement .
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I ask a pipeline , because I must confess that I do understand that the well . the " we ask .
how the witnesses , the are impatients the subject of the bill to the view of Senator Kirby , will the people to the committee to study of the Canadian the bill to the ?
i do see no , the all these witnesses , the people of the representations to offer to the respect to lapartie 1 or 2 , the one , whatever , will make it . the motion referred to the committee .
i do understand that is that we find the make .
i do I do brouiller the cartes , but it . , the us should proceed in both simple .
then , the witnesses . pr?senteraient the the committee for the Canadian the bill to the the - the .
if we are transformons the committee whole , the witnesses who have appeared before the committee student the subject of the bill to the will the people get the the committee whole to speak to the bill to the the - the ?
i wish to the the clarification to the subject of the process and the Canadian Rules that the us to the " .
is the the the the the government wish ?
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , I could be the be responding .
the that is enough new to me , but I had the same concern that the senator .
he is a chamber . the question of the .
if the bill to the right stay the the reading of the second reading , then , second reading the stay placed on the Order .
the the the bill to the rest name of second reading of the Order , he must stay the the Senate .
the motion is introduced as it . is to the the committee can look all the issues of the bill to the , including the subject , the motion ? " - that the TAGS the the bill to the , and the the the bill to the rest of the reading of the second reading , the the effectiveness , the concerns expressed by our innermost - to the opposite to the subject of the division the the bill to the , this issue . , not yet been resolved .
the motion to the way to the examination of the bill to the fault to the entorse the Canadian Rules .
we have the majority of the side - the , but you have the tools the the Cultural .
the purpose of the that , the motion of whom the have a solution . " the the article 38 rather than the the article 39 .
he seems that the will very well .
i hope that the one would be introduced .
the the reasons that I have mentioned , I do think that the the bill to the United the study . will accommodate the the fact that the committee will probably the the subject of the bill to the private that the the last , as the purpose .
the senator Murray :
honourable senators , if you the late , I say that the Committee of the subject of a bill to the " a committee is exactly the same thing that is that we had used to do when the study pre was mandated to the Senate .
obviously , we do could , the the plan of the Orders , refer a bill to the " a committee before the the have received the Canadian House of the House .
however , a time that the bill to the was tabled the Canadian House of the House , for easier the study the the Senate , we communiquions the subject of the bill to the " the committee sake .
the - the entendait the the witnesses as the the one was probably the the bill to the .
he was then , the the Senate .
we were all the fact free , when we were before the one bill to the , the chamber , the side , a committee and the suggested the other witnesses .
the many of other , before the the the bill to the us that out by the House of the House , we had already had satisfaction of the government . the government as the the amendments , including the
the reading of the study in committee . was often the the to the form , but the formulation that we responsibly the the Senate , and the Thirty the the study of the subject of the bill to the the proposed the senator Hays , the long , the " the Senate .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
honourable senators , I do I have heard about the one in the the Senate . the the study pre - a bill to the the one . was passed to the House of the House .
the senator Murray :
the , but it is the one some of the primacy by the " is that the senator Hays move .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
the senator Hays has suggested that the committee . dealt the Canadian . , but that the bill to the rest here .
the senator Murray :
this is exactly , and the long a precedent the this regard .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
is the the " that the the witnesses who appear before the committee will the walk the subject of the subject , or will the people , the entire the , takes the soft a copy of the bill to the ?
the senator Murray :
the , they not have not the limitations the this regard .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
you , you , the Canadian , the first . the motion that a fa?ade ?
the senator Murray :
he is a the one mechanism the Orders .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
i do see no , help grow the that the
why d?ploierions - we , the efforts in both simple , then , the in fact , he not to Glenney that the one only and the effort ?
if I am the only to the not understand , I wish to me mouths immediately .
i do understand that it . the Canadian a bill to the the the Senate is before the Aboriginal the one of the Bar the the witnesses to the the subject , then , the in fact , the motion of the bill to the the people want to the
can the people of the the bill to the same if the - the not the not been out of the committee ?
i do understand that this part of the Orders .
the senator Forrestall :
he is a the the same bill to the .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
why , not . chamber , bill to the and the Donna a time to all ?
i do little not the help the government .
i wish simply that the Orders and assist the things .
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , the the use the the provision of the to be the Canadian and mistakenly the the senator Murray .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
it . rest , then .
the senator Hays :
we could send the substance of the bill to the , but it believed better the comments to the second time and the chamber as we , we , as the
we have been in touch with the author of the bill to the and honesty considered , the knowledge of Senator Murray , in the .
we in this continent the Canadian proposal , the motion essentially a settlement reached the way transparent the the galleries of the Senate , the the place . to the honourable the one . work , the the would be the point . the other matters the government . the Canadian the senator Lynch - Staunton .
the senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , a brin the creative is still the Pearson .
the senator Hays has tried to be visionary .
however , we have thought conduct of the country had the the Senate to the first , the intent exactly what the us Campaign .
a great advantage of this way of the , the motion . sure that , if the two sides of the Senate . the opinion serious and zone the Canadian . the knowledge , the bill to the news , the one spouse , the entire make the the importance of the the the burden the witnesses .
we can the be counselled by the committee before the us deal of the principle of the bill to the .
the one given the in the , it lend the deal of the so , the recommended the scinder the bill to the .
if the bill to the became with the the proposals the amendment , it solve the - be the problem .
the many opportunities to switch to the committee .
this is a way creative the subject of the .
the senator Hays criteria the - be to the the motion .
referred to the substance of the bill to the " the committee
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , notwithstanding the rule 58 ( 1 ) e ) the the Rules , I move :
that the substance of the bill to the C - 6 , the motion to facilitate and the use of Trade Ministerial the virtue of information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of the OECD to bring or put the the information and the the sophisticated and the Act , the Act , and the the Canada , the Act , the Statutory Instruments and the Act , the review of the legislation , the matter to the Committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology ; and
that he be done report , both consistently : the Prime the Canadian of 1 and the second , the parties 2 , 5 , the bill , and that the debate on the second reading that the by the following .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the Honourable Consiglio Di Nino :
honourable senators , I wish to a clarification .
i do I nowhere the Canadian delay this matter .
it is it . unanimously or just a majority of the Hon. the
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , the term , leave to the - established the unanimous .
the important what Senator might interrupt the process , repeatedly the " to the leave of the Canadian motion to the Hon. the
this is therefore , the the need to grain .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , the permision is the it leave ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
business Social , Science and Technology
leave to the committee , sitting , the time that the Senate
the Honourable Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , if you , in donnez the leave , I reiterate the Canadian Jewish the the opinion of Motion .
the government . the motion of the first thing . the motion , I ask the leave of the Senate to the cultivation the committee to the Whole today , the 15 at 1:30 to discuss strictly the Canadian list of the witnesses .
we could the start to hear , evidence tomorrow , the time consistent , the " 11 at the
the my opinion , the committee criteria discuterun , to the be in the Canadian subsidiaries a calendar of the evidence .
i wish to us we occupions the this issue of the opportunity to our meeting due , the the lieu? 15 at 1:30 today , the
the result , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 58 ( 1 ) , " the the Rules , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology that Senate today , the 1998 24 November , 15 at 1:30 the the the the person that a meeting of the Senate , then , the , and that the application of the rule 95 ( 4 ) the the Rules the sitting , this regard .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Honourable Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I wish to raise a small the .
i believe that the the Honourable Senator has made the honourable to ask the leave of return to the opinion of Motion .
the the Canadian leave of return to this Jewish the fact , given the the the proposed the motion .
i do I do the aspect to give the leave demand?e the the senator Kirby in the two , the
however , we should be doing that he is that have a have a process , both simple .
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the motion of second time , today , we pass the one of the leave of sitting , the time that the Senate .
is that the I move the the government .
we should satisfy the schedule of the 1998 , Alberta , " the d?bat? 15 at 1:30 or 16 at the little any the us in this in the study of the issues affecting the the Order .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
bill to the Canadian 99 on the implementation of the Canadian taxation tax
second reading
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Hervieux - Payette , P , seconded by the Honourable Senator Robichaud , P ( - Acadie - Acadia ) , the the bill C S - 4 , the Republic of the one would , the the conventions and the the protocoles agreement between the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgarian , the Portugal , the Ouzb?kistan , the Jordan , the Japan and the Luxembourg , in the Canadian avoid the Republic Republic and the prevention the avoidance tax . the Canadian tax on the income , the third time second time .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I am very Whip that the auteure the the bill to the Senate , proceed today , and not be not speak to the bill to the .
yesterday , I have listened to the Canadian the senator Lynch - Staunton the the bill to the S - 4 .
he has opened the speech by a comment . important .
it affects the record , the Canadian and the the rights of the human the one of the country participating the the treaty , the knowledge of Ouzb?kistan .
he I would , honourable senators , the Canadian . serious the should be the the spirit of all the honourable senators , the knowledge , the in the the country , we want send a signal and attention of the Canadian and management of the Ouzb?kistan the their books , the Canadian and the the rights of the human .
the senator Lynch - Staunton has quoted two reports the Russel Zinn AsiaWatch the parlaient the abuses document?es the the rights of the human and signalaient also that our own Department of the Foreign Affairs , in his possession a number of the documents relating to the record unacceptable . the country . the Canadian and the the rights of the human .
honourable senators , notwithstanding our policy foreign the commitment demonstrates the us we , I , I , time to other in this chamber , he is the in the case , this , a relationship bilateral .
he I would be the the commitment demonstrates the mean what the the Senate , he recognizes . the us could say , a country . we are saddened , but that we do we not prepared to sign a treaty with him to the Canadian the record within the federal - Conformity the the rights of the human .
this is exactly the reason for the us exclude this country . the application of the bill to the S - 4 .
honourable senators , the question of abuses tampering and regular the the rights of the human not . not a thing that we should take the Canadian lightly . as the corporation free and democratic .
as the honourable senators , knowing , the resolution 1503 the the United Nations about directly to the abuses tampering and regular the the rights of the human and the the requirement of all the members of the community international the other . the government positive and the changes to support direct to eliminate this kind of abuses of the rights of the human .
honourable senators , the motion of the in the to the Canada . get a message . clear and the .
we can say that we do retardons not the implementation of the Canadian taxation the the respect to many countries convention by the bill to the , but only in the the concerns . in the particular , the case of the abuses yearly , absolutely and regular the the rights of the human .
it is will the " that we do wish to conclude a treaty with the country .
honourable senators , the us cementing the focus on the conventions the Vienne to the Canadian and the implementation of the treaty international or the some of the treaty international issues . rights of the man , as the Covenant international relatifaux rights civilian and political or the Covenant international Covenant the the rights economic , social and Cultural , the are all of the treaty that the Canada , the the victims of many of the country . the world , the agreements , adopted and the in the and we should bring attention to the rights of the human meet in the treaty .
honourable senators , I thank the senator Lynch - Staunton , the attention our attention of the fact that the government . the Canada , the us concluions a treaty with the country , in order to the same , botulinum the the PC the Canadian conclusion , and treaty that we have signed in the Canadian Human the Canadian Human .
i think that , honourable senators , the the motion angry important that this chamber to send know his position .
we can decide or , the introduction a subamendment , the reading of the second reading , before the chamber , bill to the " a committee , or , the the the would be advised , now that we have raised record that the , the chamber , bill to the " a committee , the " is that the honourable members of the committee . emparent the Canadian . the the proper our colleague , the senator Lynch - Staunton , and the TSB that the the representatives of the Foreign Affairs and the other witnesses appear before the committee .
the honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I wish question . the " the Honourable Senator .
i do I do , or read the speech , the senator Lynch - Staunton , but the principle that he envied is very interesting .
he we , came to have the the trade , the subject , not only here , but in the other representations .
he is focuses the one country , the
the Honourable Senator to the the " that , before the feasibility a measure bilateral , the Canadian taxation , we should , as the people of time , time , United - United , to the performace of each country . " that agreed . the the concerns of Rights of the human ?
the senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , I thank the senator Grafstein , his question .
i Albertan in a first time that I do see no - secondary the the model of oversight of the rights of the man .
the experience seeing in the many countries , including the the United - United , the the people essay?e the the system Carter , the motion disinfection probante , as the the would failure .
i accept the reluctantly the principle of the commitment demonstrates .
i hesitant to the right reason that I do know that the the feelings behind this board public .
in the protocoles the gouvernent the conduct of our members of Trade and the our members of the foreign , I do see no , the cause the indication by letter , in their reports apartment or 400 , the number of the the people will raised the question of the rights of the man , for the us can resolve a follow administrative force and whether the effectiveness real the this commitment demonstrates .
the the the principle I paraisse acceptable , theory , I do believe that the the Senate . the Universal .
in the case , we ' s , the is the one convention tax specific .
he is a the one would bilateral .
the bill to the MASH . the country . the number coalition the in the wish to the us makes the review of the .
in second , the I wish to us starts the one filled surgery , the the the policy , these agreements bilateral .
i examinerais to my the the background of each country . the Canadian Human the the man and I d?ciderais the basis of the the I would observed if I wish or not to give the " the agreement . the , or more so I do I do use this instrument of our policy foreign to bring their attention of the problem .
the senator Grafstein :
as a the knowledge of Senator , the United - United the report of the , the us not have not yet the selfless - the the the ages that such a the intent of the new Minister of the Foreign Affairs in his new policy on the safety human - in order comes a test Annual is instituted by the , sometimes by region , the the abuses choquantes the the rights and Freedoms the the individuals .
the 251 the state of Black regularly and they are the subject of debate in the two Houses of the Congress American .
we have chosen not . " is model .
we have decided deliberately the not . to the links .
i do know that what side of the gold I finirais not adopt the Canadian light of the new policy of security of the people who has been worded by the Minister responsible for the Foreign External and the the summer r?it?r?e by the Prime Minister .
however , if we must be to the this way , he would generally proper the meeting of debate this order to allow the all the honourable senators , in the " a conclusion as the Canadian , the " , the the place . we in the " a country . the sake by a bill to the .
i discredit to the first time , anyone of Lords quick to the bill to the and I note that he is the one or two or may , the same three other countries , and I am well attention to the the I say , the foundation - to the coalition , the likely firm the same thing , the following the the GST the newspapers , in Yiddish the one form sake of abuses tampering the the rights of the human .
i commend the Honourable Senator the in the Canadian . raised this issue .
the Canadian we to the feasibility of the solutions the exception , I favour that he would the the comments to the so we should take or not to the debate and the so we do we not be engaged the this deal of the Canadian law , this nature .
i comforting , the rassurant the function the one of pr??tabli the the place . make the the inspiration the the time .
the senator Kinsella :
a thing , I just the the spirit in response to the question of the Honourable Senator , the motion that he is necessary to respond drew the the abuses of the rights of the human account the Canadian bad will .
when the the in studying the very clearly , he is that the counter these abuses of the rights of the human by bad will .
in the case of a kind syst?mique , helpfulness or historical the discrimination , I am fully the agreement with you .
he is to a political , calmly and the general .
it to all the issues of the political international , there was the trade internationally and the dynamic the the public national .
however , in all the case of abuses of the rights of the human , he not . not necessary to wait a greater the Canadian the Canadian and the Canadian the human to apply to a situation empoisonn?e a kind syst?mique or institutional the right .
he is the Canadian and the the the " may see clear that such a violation and the , really directly .
i do believe that the the treaty the importance to the public . the country .
he could however , interesting because the the motion . , the have the the treaty with several country .
however , the Parliament would certainly bring . the attention to the announced that he is " a number of the
he is some of the the discussions official the in the prior to the bill to the in so , this stage and the the issues . have the questions .
the officials , subjugation also on our deliberations and our debate . the following the afternoon and they will features the the the Canadian taking the standards provisions the the rights of the human the the serious .
the Honourable Consiglio Di Nino :
honourable senators , I wish to the Canadian , opening the the senator Kinsella .
i am the agreement with him .
honourable senators , I believe that we should we look the Canadian . .
the debate . yesterday 24 , the country had the day , because the us about the one relationship bilateral with a number of the United different .
we have concluded the the agreements , the the protocoles and the the conventions similar with pilotage all the country . the world .
the senator Kinsella , stated that deal with the state of the the subject of the debate froisse the meaning of the " - to the , he is a the one of him for the provisional the rights of the human .
however , I believe that the senator Kinsella appropriate that the the tens of the people of the reality record .
i wish to me to the us dealing that he not to a not just the sign a wide .
he is a the sign a wide the rules the exchange of information on the the companies and the the individuals and that the the business of the Canadian with some of these countries abroad .
it . concern , because , the margin , I do appreciate not done to some of these States to the the information remain negotiates .
if I am the the business with a the the United , as the motion of the present to the corporation Talisman the the Sudan , I should agree the risk that some information that my country produce the the government soudanais the my respect and the the subject of my company . the not also adequately that they the armed the Constitution of the bill to other countries , the world .
this is a place within the us should be more carefully .
i have raised this issue last because the , he is the number months , we have had the " a bill to the slaughter the the committee on the Canadian and business foreign and we have asked the same , the day , the
i do I do the impression that we doubled have had the answers .
the my opinion , the committee basically the review the bill to the motion of Committee of the business foreign .
we can go to comment that the remarks the honourable Staunton , Lynch , Kinsella and Grafstein and continue to ask the the representatives of the Department of the " and the the us we raised the last time that we have examined a bill to the bitter .
the Honourable LoisM. Wilson :
honourable senators , I am pleased that the Opposition the the Opposition that raised this issue .
it is recorded in the new debate on the Government of the Canada , the respect to the rights of the human .
the the reference to the Ouzb?kistan , the same that the Sudan and many other countries , Ministry a problem .
he seems that the agenda . the Canadian the paying .
i am the opinion that the not be responsible for political general , convienne the all the country .
sometimes , the the sanctions are bearing ; time , the order to politics of commitment demonstrates .
he can simpler different strategies applicable to different in the
i think that the Senate . need to a forum for coastal these issues .
the committee , it in the case , this is the - be the committee , the business foreign , and the the committee , the Banking .
he is to this , the chamber , the the years of a debate full , the in committee .
i hope that the committee which is the Canadian law will referred examine seriously the question and the will be the the Senate .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I do I do so , and senators , address this issue , but the honourable served like to the bill to the Senate referred to a committee .
as it has been presented by the the right to put the the approval of the House of the House .
i suppose that he would the easily the , to a subamendment , in the meaning that , if we supprimions , by the , the word Ouzb?kistan , he not we would not returned .
the Department of the Foreign Affairs role of the " the respect to the treaty , but it . " the same for the Department of the Finance and the error Canada , since the are the the conventions tax .
if the comments accountable to the years of the debate . supplied , and I do I no reason , in douter , we should we ask why we should negotiate a convention tax with a country , the one sad record , the Canadian Human the Canadian Human .
why conclude a treaty with the country ?
the people of the qualifi?es to respond to this issue . the officials , the target the treaty , the the people agreement .
as the Canadian . the concern the senator Di Nino , the knowledge , what the this bill should be referred , I have asked the the information on the the the fact , as the
the entire clearly , the extent the be referred to the committee , the Banking or the one of the business foreign .
he is the the the committee , the Banking , after the committee , bill to the , the veterinary the the committee , the business foreign .
the entire the , the following the the I have heard the the years of the debate , the study of the bill to the not to do not , the the " questions of the the us we heard , the
this is the the committee that these issues must be able .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable - the " and senators , the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed and the bill to the motion read a second time . )
referred to the committee
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . third time ?
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I move that the bill to the S - 4 , referred to the committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable - the " and senators , the Canadian motion ?
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I draw the the last treaty tax the us we were before the the bill to the S - 16 , the summer referred to the committee , the business foreign .
he providers the Vietnam , the Croatia and the Chile .
the committee , the business foreign the fact , the recommendations interesting the , and other things , the protection of the information personal and the ability to the country participating the end of the with great the parties of the treaty .
he would ourselves to rompre the interparliamentary that the " is in the report of the committee , interpret the the bills of the Canadian psyche similar to a place Committee .
i urge the Leader Deputy the reconsidered the question and the introduction that the bill to the Senate referred to the committee , the business foreign .
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , for the the motion of the primacy , the the years of the spring Parliament , both the legislation regarding the the conventions tax , the projetsde the C - 105 and S - 2 , the summer stage , the committee , the Banking .
in the second session of the spring Parliament , a treaty tax , the bill to the C - 36 , the so . After .
he has also been out of the committee on the the Banking .
some have the - be a better correctly , I on the subject , but I must say , in the plain , the " I was explained that the bill to the one was referred to the committee , the business foreign because the the committee , the Banking , surcharg? the work .
this is why , the I , the majority of the bills of the , except the Canadian the bill to the S - 16 , the summer claimants the the committee , the Banking .
honourable senators , if the committee , the Banking , the Hon. the , he will cerner . problem such a cross the the honourable senators , raised , in the part of the debate on the bill to the S - 4 .
the the need , the entire recommend that the bill to the Senate referred to the committee , the business foreign to the be more detail consideration .
i emphasize , a time , the fact that he is a the one bill to the business of the Senate .
this is the not a bill to the the us we received the Canadian House .
we have a little more of options to this regard .
i think that the fact , refer traditionally the treaty tax to the committee , the Banking , to the the Canadian exporters is a comment is the the bill to the .
this is the aspect of the important to the bill to the , but the the motion . the one country with which we do we not to the " because of the matter . the Canadian and the the rights of the human , it becomes a place within a .
a country . was appointed , and the other the will the the years of the debate .
however , the best way of properly , this the challenge to study of first , based tax , then , the the need , the study of the " the committee , the business foreign .
the Honourable Consiglio Di Nino :
honourable senators , I think that is not . not very important to be the the bill to the motion referred .
however , the the the the bill to the issue primarily the the relationship bilateral of two of the the committee , the business foreign the be the the would the most basically the the review .
the - be the Leader Deputy of the government will be the agreement with the recommendation recommendation that the committee studying the issues , the summer raised in the Senate , the chamber , the related to the rights of the human , but also the issues related to the terms and the protection of the life private in the case of the trade , line with some of these States .
the my opinion , we do we not researched the issues . further , last time
the honourable chamber were understand all the problem .
each of the committee can do the work and answer to the issues that we have raised .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , if the debate . yesterday and the day , the be taken to the serious , the are being those questions on the rights of the human the the international de the Heads the attention during the debate . second reading .
unfortunately , the mover of the bill to the , the the US the debate on the principle of the bill to the , not to give the not the only to come debate . new questions and the us to the rectitude .
i have found great the debate . the last days .
i have the entire a report of the committee on the Canadian and business foreign 115 the the 28 May 1998 . - Senator Lynch - Staunton , the fact which the
he is a the the Bill C S - 16 , the Tory the one of the amounts now before .
in the sixth report of the committee , the members of the - the people , the two major concern .
the first , they have suggested that , before the the government . the Canada , a bill to the bitter in the future , the Department of the Foreign Affairs and the the International Covenant , the assurance the the Senate that he has been the one pr?s?lection the the country participating to whether their ability to the in the successful the the agreements and signed appropriate .
our committee , the business foreign the motion before made on the principle .
the committee could the well decide that he is include in the bill to the one clause the the respect to the rights of the human .
i believe that is an a measure welcome and Conservative .
it , the " the with the direction general , our debate in paragraph reading .
the committee , the business foreign the previous consideration . solution in the case of a treaty such .
i am the agreement with the senator Hays on the the the the said , the subject of the part tax because the Canadian second thought about the Canadian and the place . the disadvantages of information tax to the the two of the Act , safeguards the the information personal .
the government . the debate , the in the " the Senate , he would be the fact indicated that the bill to the Senate referred to the committee on the the business foreign .
i wish to propose a subamendment , if I , I , the least , the senator Hays not change the idea .
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , the my opinion , the bill to the should the first , referred to the committee , the Banking , the in ?tudierait the Main objective .
he could then be referred to the committee , the business foreign if the motion . the the Senate would the
some argument . valid the summer raised .
i do I no objection to the the the committee , the business foreign at the bill to the , but it is the well , he is that the one pr?s?lection .
he is the the the , the one good reason , cab the country , some other countries .
the senator Di Nino :
you , you parier a dinner ?
the senator Hays :
i do I do player .
the bill to the the summer adopted . second reading and I have asked that he be referred to the committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade .
i do I no objection to amend my motion to the the bill to the Senate referred to the committee , then , the committee on the Canadian and business foreign to a place , the
if the Senate . in the Canadian leave , I believe that change my motion .
the senator Kinsella :
with the leave of the Senate , you the consent .
the senator Hays :
i move that the perpetrator a note saying , enrolled that the committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade the this recommendation to the
this is the the I formulerais the motion .
the Honourable LoisM. Wilson :
honourable senators , I would satisfied that the bill to the Senate referred to the committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade , enrolled that the Leader Deputy the matter of the debate has the this issue and the first , the the motion of the the committee , the business foreign .
when the members of the committee common the bill to the , they CWB that these points the previous was raised and they will the chamber , the committee on the Canadian and business foreign .
we , we be sought the the in the so ?
the senator Hays :
the right , the the fact that our colleagues , the Senate do the Hansard .
i suppose that he is possible that some not the position . , defended the " the souhaiterait .
i do I do some of the hiring the the request the Honourable Senator .
i am confident the make the the the I can the the the chairman of the committee , the Banking French - Debate the day , the
i hope that he the lira .
i urge the Honourable Senator the in the with him .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
senator Hays , your motion of the introduction of first , the committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade , and then , the committee on the Canadian and business foreign ?
the senator Hays :
if the committee , the Banking , recommend .
is the the acceptable ?
the senator Kinsella :
this part . is not proceed to the Rules .
the Order must come to the Senate .
the senator Hays :
i am in tiendrai . " I thought 81 .
i move that , with the leave of the Senate and under the the article 30 , the Rules :
that the bill to the Senate referred to the Committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade and that , a time , the Canadian . Committee completed , he be second referred to the Committee on the Canadian and business foreign to the " that the .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Canadian privilege
the Honourable Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , I have given that the my intention of order to the Canadian privilege to the subject of the committee on the Canadian and Communications and the the communication .
as you the you , as the honourable senators , the committee Standing the summer authorized to study of the Canadian the restructuring of the industry . the transportation Air the the Canada under the the Order of Reference of the Senate . date of the 14 October 1998 .
under the the Order of Reference , the committee be to the report before the 15 December 1998 . Service my Chair , the committee has the 8 meetings public at prompted the the course 53 witnesses .
the week , the us we interrompu our hearings public and we began the study of the Ambassador of the report .
we in this is the Canadian third array .
we have the way due to avoid that the publicity the beginning of our deliberations .
all the Ambassador were marqu?es the draft the and the recorded the .
the Canadian our meeting on the first draft , I have made . due to distribute the the copies only to the honourable senators , copies that I have the TSB the Canadian reseller the Canadian meeting .
the the study of the second array , I have the letter , the eve of our meeting , a copy of each senator member of the committee .
lacking the Canadian meeting 81 , the confidence to the integrity of the honourable and the people assistants and recommendation their thorough the possibility of thought , substantive the the content of the report , I do I do r?cup?r? the copies of this second array of our report .
yesterday evening , I conclude the only after the meeting of the committee , I have learned that a journalist the Canadian Presse Canadian the in his possession a copy of the draft The 2 , our report .
the Soleil the Quebec , in the road the the morning , publie a section wrote the the same journalist the Canadian Presse Canadian in which is the comments , and I quote :
in a report before the report tomorrow , the Senate , the members of the House high , Liberal and Conservatives , the are heard to the region , the motor American the authority to ensure the conjunction air of various destinations Canadian ... - ...
the the reporter , the reference to the committee , the Transportation and the the communication , goes the article in writing :
the Hon. side , the Toronto Star . the article today , a section in which is the comments said :
the our sources , the the matter to the the the committee on the the motion of the point of enabling the report , moved the attention to 33,3p. per the percentage of the actions of December Canada would be detained by a single actionnaire , which is now , 10 per , and the attention of per - and actions would be detained by the the interests foreign to 49p. per , the per cent in the
i am prepared to table , if necessary , a copy of the Quorum the the GST mentioned the summer reproduits .
honourable senators , this drain the rights , the good practice of the Senate current the the committee , the Transportation and Communications .
the the the information ?tal?es today , in the media feel the one large the one of the not . , not finalis? , they arise the teinter strongly the turn the will the public . our report final .
as I , I have said , our report . is not get .
we must still before the number of the
unfortunately , the drain and the implications that it provoquerait be entraver the entire serene and enlightened the the members of the committee .
over the significance of the damage subis the the committee that I have the honour to insist , a moment drain is harmful to the whole of the Senate . the committee , the Senate .
this is the terms of our deliberations , is the case , and , by the fact , the Canadian ability to the honourable the debate assume the the issues , we are r?f?r?es .
the make properly . the " we ask , we must be the certainty that the work that we effectuons the camera closed , imposed .
no - that the the motion defenders , the not be a mother before the the committee . the fact , the Canadian House .
in the same comment , the listed the comments following , and I quote :
is a terminal the the privilege of the Canadian Grain the deliberations of a committee held in camera closed or the the reports the committee before the people . have been developed the Canadian section of the House .
he is surprisingly that a moment . so , the Senate , a farce responsible and transparent and the moon the success of the activities .
he is therefore unacceptable that the sente the need to the availability the the media of the documents the , the entire the , would have made public , the decisions Strategy have been taken .
unfortunately , this drain , the state of the other pieces similar to the are d?roul?s recently , the public . our institution .
the 14 September the , the senator Andreychuk the report of the Canadian privilege that it has r?introduite the 13 October the " the subject of a talent the the would produced the the committee on the Canadian and aboriginal Peoples .
i hope that we know we ressaisir the time to the one term , these incidents the credibility the credibility of our institution .
a breach of respect and the coll?gialit? the ever r?gn? the the public . the committee , the Transportation and the the communication .
i have a great respect to the members of the committee .
this is why I am deeply surprise that a moment . the provinces .
i know how this drain the same . As .
i do know that if the motion of the intentionnelle , accidentelle or by neglect .
however , this drain the in the and is therefore , the my argument , a terminal the the privilege of the Senate .
i ask that you statuiez the the meaning .
i am , in the Canadian to the motion implies :
that the question that matter to the Committee on the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules to the the report of the
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I support the motion of the amounts before .
a stamp the Canadian and senators , our side . happened all the reports , we know where the odd our copies .
i do the human , particularly .
the senator Bacon , the the the looking the act of a talent by inadvertent or by neglect , or the one drain deliberate .
this , is important , in the case , the motion that the case , referred to the committee , with the degree of priority that it deserves , to the the not there was no doubt that the the respected the fractious .
that we tirions the case , the clear or not any of the the risk potential .
in the report , we talking of the Canadian the degree of control of Canadian , the the interests foreign or by a single actionnaire .
it would give the " the the sp?culations the biological to extreme not only to the industry air and the the investors , but especially the Canadian trust that the Canadian . opposite , the - raising our institution and the manner the it op?re .
the Honourable Serge Joyal :
honourable senators , I wish I associate the the comments of the honourable Bacon and Forrestall .
i have the privilege of the " and the Canadian the committee , the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules .
the question raised by the senator Bacon is the one some way , studied the country Committee be the Honourable Senator Andreychuk the previous raised a question similiaire the , the somewhat time .
he is the then a virus in the system .
if the types situations . repetition the short deadline , the motion that he is the chamber . the people in our group , the not know that have the the not have not a view out of their responsibility .
i am front of attention your attention of the way , the Parliament of the Great - Britain treating the the issues similar .
i wish attention your attention of two decisions the Canadian House of the House of London , the consequent pendant10 days , the salaries , a member of the office the report of a committee before the the committee . the power to disclosure .
this House , I , I , the summer suspended for 10 days . pay .
in a place , the the the summer released in October the , both members of the the subject of penalties the Canadian the Canadian the committee , the House of the House British , the the the requested the report and the the the the the .
the two , the single the the captain , the two , the suspendus to the the dark reasonable .
they have had the red and to the the apologize to their colleagues , the House of the House British .
this issue is taken extremely the the serious in our system Parliamentary and the Canadian tradition the us radical .
the reason , is a , as the the bloodstream the senator Bacon , and I quote the comments of the committee British :
this is the this stage the Canadian and pressures External be a certain to influence the findings of the report .
if the less jury properly the this regard , the the system of the committee special the be given the question .
no - our committees . the work , through the make the " that the Canadian a way valid and responsible , the " the reading material and leads the Canadian non - and reports , the Ambassador of those of the the centrist the Dnieper , excusez the " , the left and the right pipelines
he is , by virtue , extremely important , and I conclude my colleague , the senator DeWare , the fact , the the committee , the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules , the the issues , the people were raised by the senator Andreychuk and the senator Bacon , so that the subject of a study of the government . the committee .
we could the us to the only on the Ethics that we are engagerons all the " but also , unfortunately , the the system of penalties that we should stop the place to the government that the the Somalia incident of this nature . the proper , the
this is therefore , this vein , honourable senators , the I wish support the comments of the honourable Bacon and Forrestall .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I wish add , wish .
he is unfortunate that the question of privilege the proper to get the comments of facts almost identiques .
i refer , the course , the Canadian . the privilege raised by the senator Andreychuk the Canadian the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules .
i add that it seems rather attributes , the government . the previous the Canadian Chair , with the Whole , a question of privilege was based , the arts the comment 877 , the Canadian page 250 the Canadian sixth edition of the 286 Parliamentary the precincts , the rules said :
no - that the the motion defenders , the not be a mother before the the committee . the fact , the Canadian House .
the more :
is a terminal the the privilege of the Canadian Grain the deliberations of a committee held in camera closed or the the reports the committee before the people . have been developed the Canadian section of the House .
in determining , Your Honour , it seems rather attributes and I would urge the " mea this matter as receipt to the it be referred to the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules .
the Honourable Joan Fraser :
honourable senators , I wish support , as the motion of the senator Bacon .
this is the drain and the Canadian public , is the condemn .
the Honourable Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I wish to the words , the debate .
the subject of the debate must be fully clear .
the debate is the editorials the Chair . the , the homeland and the in breach the the privilege and that it is to this is the first priority to this issue .
the support this is her the senator Bacon , the , I am commend the Hon. the , and I , thank the have listened to deal .
in the other words , the content of the bills of the not be not be mother the the media and the the public before the tabling of the report , the Senate .
needless to the " , the problem , back to strive and the other . the magnitude , and the motion clear that he bear our attention .
i draw the the senator Andreychuk the point of the bitter the 14 September .
i believe that in the the debate .
the new , the 13 October , the senator Andreychuk the point of the problem , and I , I immediately awarded my support .
the true . the the problem . we , honourable senators , is the Canadian the the the , the pr?somption the rights , the privilege .
i say , Your Honour that the many senators seem be the this notice .
the Canadian the Chair
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , if no other senator . " to the honourable , I rendrai my decision .
i wish thank the senator Bacon and all the honourable senators , the part of the debate .
i am recall that the senator Molgat , the the months of September the , the summer before the one issue such .
i accept that the question of privilege raised by the senator Bacon .
i move that the question that matter to the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules to the the report of the
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
the freedom religious the China , report with the pactes international the the United Nations
inquiry - Adjourned the the debate
the Honourable LoisM. Wilson made the honourable under the the opinion of inquiry report presented the 17 November 99 :
the honourable senators , the the lines October the the notice November the , a delegation of seven people hosted by the Council Canadian of the churches the committee , with the assistance of the Department of the Foreign Affairs and the the International Covenant , the challenges faced our partners Chinese are faced in the practice religious the China .
the delegates , the future of major churches chr?tiennes the the Canada , the widely puis? in their history institutionnelle centennial with their partners Chinese to study of protection of the freedom religious the China .
among the contacts ult?rieurs possible , notons a meeting of a delegation Canadian interconfessionnelle and a group interconfessionnel the China , and a meeting of the Tibet .
the delegation to the decision . in the spirit of the commitment demonstrates , in the purpose of shared the the point of the Act , the the Canadian and law regulating the freedom of reprisal can alter the obligations international obligations to the words of the two pactes the the United Nations relating to the rights of the man , the China considering the Inter .
the delegation stamping that it was it is the following the one of the many agreements bilateral agreements of the Canada and the China and that it just picture the inevitable the assessment of the needs constituents , China , the Upper Commissioner of the United Nations , the rights of the man , Mary Packwood .
it offers a program overall the cooperation technical in the board of the justice , the reform legislation and the other areas of the rights of the human .
during these two weeks , the delegation . visited six cities and discussed the issues with a wide range of the Canadian the Church and the the government , there was the subamendment , Minister of the Foreign Affairs , the China and the steering the the Transportation of the business religious .
the stuff Strike the Criminal primarily on the persecution religious the China , the incidents and the d?tentions arbitraires , and that the abuses of the rights of the human , are substandard the purpose of vicious the country culture .
the incidents of the to the the grounds political are ensued . no explanation , if the not . the " out that the knowledge and violating the bill Chinese , and the motion generally perceived by the Canadian as a violation of the freedom of reprisal and the the rights of the man .
some of these headlines are the no doubt supplied .
this is the side dark the Canadian life of the communities religious the China .
however , the not specify have the the the legislation and the regulations affecting the free say , the reasons for reasons they have been developed , the and why the the sanctions are down to those who are breaking .
the charter of the Republic popular the China result of a history nicotine by the confucianisme , the mechanization marxiste and the need to control , the government , governor and the Order in the management of a country , the claim billion . people and a history and a light . different the the selfless .
the delegation . the ever visited a city the one of the 10 million . people .
the charter redistribute the freedom of belief the the citizens and protects the activities religious normal .
however , it is affirmative not the freedom of the croyants the sting or the eyes this belief and not specify not only the the the " cathedral by the activities religious normal if the not . the " that one . " use of reprisal to the status of the the activities the perturbent the Order public .
this duty grise held some of the limits the the Chinese impose the Canadian freedom religious the us go to the Iron and , the case of this remove , who , are working of ethical the regulations , particularly in the the regions local . ?loign?es the Beijing , can insisting the the provisions .
the charter specific , clearly that the organizations church . the not subject to a form of Communist foreign that is that the
it has the the fact that the China redoute the death of the community religious international the the single the difficulty his sovereignty in the past .
the government . the direction strongly privatized the groups posting saw the organic only the salut individual in a country , extremely . the price to the community , particularly when the groups come to Los Angeles or the January , they are the newly as a ringing foreign .
two battle of regulations allow the resulting the the the Canadian religion not possibly not a source of d?stabilisation or the threat to the safety national .
the regulations clauses of a section that the Canadian freedom is associated the Canadian and the actions ; the Iron , however , the highlights more the focus on the rights individual .
each centre of activity religious is the Canadian . college the Canadian the government and the island to six criteria , the Middle a place . culte , a scene set , a number of the adh?rents , a committee , management , a source turned the income and a name for a place . meeting .
he is important to note that the China , the group social is the Canadian . college the Canadian the government , whaling the not to limit not to the groups posting .
it is recorded in the fact that the " You the focus on the rights actions .
the fact , the Art the the Science Social the People has said that the Christian were the good citizens Chinese .
our partners . the Church protestante the dance the Council redemption the China , a church entering - confessionnelle the the public . the the people seniors the " the former Presbyterians , the former anglicans , and the Canadian , the
this church . fully Chinese in the extent the it potentially the origins of the movement that the Three - Self Patriotic the , the as it . " the the Economy , the the Finance and the the theology .
the partners transfer in the regulations a measure of protection of their activity and a guarantee , the missiles the Canadian the Canadian Chinese , croyants , as it is the product for the mechanization cultural .
the " that protection , the churches protestantes the China those of rBGH upwards and their biggest problem is the joint enough to leaders of talent for life , the request .
we have met a young woman who , by the , after the positive a similar to three months , is now separate the the direction spiritual de1 $ the .
the the minority in China , the Christian the the country are urban the many of the Christian the the Canada .
the situation . the Catholic is different .
the churches Catholic parcels are d?sign?es the the name of Scientology patriotique and they support the political government , by the Canadian political the the child single .
it night , the army the the attitudes , since the Canadian families principally the their only child choisisse this most , emp?chant the transmission of the name of family , the so they motto the be the Chinese and Catholic the government full the .
those who , by doing or by the strength of the things , the Subcommittee to prier the the public . groups , registered can the make the number reasons : the vacancy the the croyants the one authority or a global foreign ; the refusal of the confin? the one only the Canadian meeting ; the refusal of the user the the authority to the association of the Chinese Catholic patriotiques or the the Council Chinese the the churches chr?tiennes ; or insolvent the acceptance of the post and the the practical h?t?rodoxes evidence of threaten the Order public .
he is the so , cultes .
the Chinese those very well , cultes the profiles the the Canada and , the the Art the the Science Social , a professor we , firms the the subject of the culte him the the name of the " concludes the Toronto , the investigator , the the Pearson Pearson and the honourable you may , the previous heard about .
no - we do the entire directly , if the the us we are proud to the the " - that the answer to the issues .
the China , writing a bill to the cultes the last day , our trip .
all our partners . exception , the same that the government , unrealistic the Falun Gong as a company d?stabilisatrice , nuisible and the impact foreign .
the one , this organization . the popular the Canadian and filling the educated and the vulnerable , the are the - be more isolated the Canadian modernization and the the benefits of the terminally modern .
our delegation . the not taken Position the the lesson of the movement Falun Gong .
the Canadian our meeting with the subamendment , Minister of the Foreign Affairs , Yang Jiechi , I have the state of various concerns the the name of the Minister of the Foreign Affairs , the Canada .
first , I have said that the Canadian . inqui?taient . the the incidents , the the d?tentions , the the bad treatment and the the abuse Metzner the the adherents the the Falun Gong , the the behaviour public . was not fit and independence during their numerous ininterrompues .
since the Constitution top to the citizens of the Canadian that the Canadian . not believe , the the the impression , the the Canada , the Canadian Constitution . is not kept .
as the allocation strategic - they inspire the the motion of the dark religious normal the ?
second , the implementation of the Canadian the new bill to the cultes will it r?troactive ?
third , how the community international the - it be assured that the people opinionated will the " a civil fair and public ?
what exactly the the two pactes the the United Nations , sign?s by the China , 1997 and 1998 , but not yet ratifi?s , the the treatment tell the the members of the Falun Gong ?
these issues , the same that the Canadian and that I do I do the time , raised in this short inquiry , not have always not found the answers unsatisfactory , but flexible a possibility of pursuing our ways with the China , the subject of the freedom religious , the government . the conventions international .
we anticipate that he is a the other delegations and the other trade the the issues related to the faith and the Canadian freedom religious and the the application of a political the Canadian religion , pursuant to the conventions international .
we think that this approach is the exciting that a approach to suspicions the the fighting .
we hope welcome to the Canada . delegation of the Canadian the Transportation of the business religious to continually our understanding step the the relationship between the Church and the state and the ?lucider with them . mystery , the knowledge why the Canada . the not need to a board of the business religious .
we anticipate also privileged a delegation of researchers the the Art Chinese the the Science Social , the , the police with our university , can alters our understanding step the Canadian religion in a society , confessionnelle .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Wilson , the the name of the senator Austin , the debate is adjourned . )
aboriginal Peoples
the board Royal the inquiry on the Aboriginal Peoples , Autorisation the the committee , to the recommendations and the ports , quiet and the evidence of the session 81 the the study at
the Honourable Charlie Watt , pursuant to the moved 23 November 99 , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian and aboriginal Peoples be authorized to do a study and the present a report on the recommendations of the board Royal the the Aboriginal Peoples ( document parlementairno 2 / 35 - 508 ) the " the basis government aboriginal and the particular , the information the point of the Canadian and aboriginal Peoples and the the other sponsors the the issues should :
2 . the statutory to the the comptrollership the the new relations structurelles ;
3 . the models of self government aboriginal to the answer to the needs of the Aboriginal Peoples and the concorder with the new relations structurelles ;
that the briefs received and the evidence heard the Canadian . the the committee on the Canadian and aboriginal Peoples during the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament be providing the the Committee ;
that the Committee tabled the report final the the most final 16 d 99 , and that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the premature the the results of the study contained in the report final , and the date , the 24 December 1998 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practical consequently , the table the report of the the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate . " no , and that obedience report be deposited have brought to the Senate .
( the motion is agreed . )
business Social , Science and Technology
leave to the committee , to the premature the the deliberations , the the average electronic
the Honourable Dan Hays , pursuant to the moved 18 November 99 , moved , the the name of the senator Kirby :
that the Committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , clerical the WTO the heading the the deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible . the .
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , I have a question on the motion No. 11 . If is the the Canadian a envelope permanent , the same the t?l?diffuser all the Senate . the committee , the good amendments , or the one leave to a late expresse only ?
the senator Hays :
senator Corbin , if I have the right , by this motion , the Senate would the premature the all the deliberations of the committee , the media of information electronic , and the only the deliberations related to a study particular , and said , the Canadian prorogation .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
leave to the committee , to the the staff
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . , the the name of the senator Kirby and under the the moved 18 November 99 , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , clerical the services of the Canadian counsel , clerical , clerical the board or other elements necessary to examine the bills of the , the substance of the Canadian law and the Estimates budget , he have been providing .
( the motion is agreed . )
agriculture and Forestry
leave to the committee , to the state of the the prospects of future of the Agriculture
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud , pursuant to the opinion of the lines November 99 , the the name of the senator Fairbairn , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian the Agriculture and the the forestry the power to study of the present and the prospects of future of the Agriculture , the Canada ; and
that the Committee examine the " the most later , 29 June 2001 .
( the motion is agreed . )
leave to the committee , to the state of the the prospects of future of the forestry
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud , pursuant to the opinion of the lines November 99 , the the name of the senator Fairbairn , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian the Agriculture and the the forestry the power to study of the present and the prospects of future of the forestry the the Canada ; and
that the Committee examine the " the most later , 29 June 2001 .
( the motion is agreed . )
leave to the committee , to the the staff and the the place
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud , pursuant to the opinion of the lines November 99 , the the name of the senator Fairbairn , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian the Agriculture and the the forestry the technical , clerical and services of counsel , clerical , clerical the board or other elements necessary to examine the bills of the , the substance of the Canadian law and the Estimates budget , he have been providing ; and
that the Committee be authorized to the place to adjourn the Canada and the the foreign to the purpose of such reviews .
( the motion is agreed . )
leave to the committee , to the premature the the deliberations
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud , pursuant to the opinion of the lines November 99 , the the name of the senator Fairbairn , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian the Agriculture and the the forestry the technical , to the heading the the deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible . the .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate . adjourned . p.m. at tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 12
the Thursday 25 November 99
the Honourable Rose - Marie Losier - Cool , Speaker Pro tempore
table of the dumping
the Honourable P . Derek Lewis , Q Q .
tributes to the opportunity to his retirement
Maxwell Tabled '
the Late the Allan Austin Lamport , O . C .
tributes
business routine
fisheries
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
security and services of security
tabling of the Prime report of the committee Special
internal Economy , Budgets and Administration
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
security of the Transportation
tabling of the Prime report of the committee Special
the adjournment
business legal and Constitutional
notice of Motion During the committee to sit in the time that the Senate
privileges , Standing and Orders
leave to the committee , sitting , the time that the Senate
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Defence down
the replacement of the squirrel the helicopters Sea King
the replacement of the squirrel the helicopters Sea King - Government Position of ?vacuer the troops the the areas chauds
the replacement of the squirrel the helicopters Sea King - Request for body of the purpose of the needs
the industry
the ligue national the hockey - Government Position of a balancing government to the inspection
answers delayed the Canadian and the control
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis crop to the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan - Government Position of a program of credit crop - Conformity program of the in the Canadian origin related to the income crop - Conformity effectiveness of the program , - 03 the the applicants
the Senate . the Senate
on business orders
bill to the Canadian and the effect of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
second reading of Second the the debate
the speech , the Throne
the Adresse the answer to Motion Republic of the the debate on eighteenth on the Chair of Debate the the debate
the Act , the Parliament of the Canada
bill to the Second - Second Reading - Adjourned the the debate
the Union monetary European
the report of the committee , the business foreign - Consideration of the debate
business Social , Science and Technology
leave to the committee , to the facts new the the Euthanasia and the suicide attended
the situation . the aboriginal and their future
inquiry - Debate the the debate
business legal and Constitutional
leave to the committee , clerical the the services
leave to the committee to broadcast the deliberations , the media of information electronic
business Social , Science and Technology
leave to the committee , sitting , the time that the Senate
the Senate
the Thursday 25 November 99
the Chair . Chair . p.m. at the the Speaker pro tempore the " the Chair .
prayers .
the Honourable P . Derek Lewis , Q Q .
tributes to the opportunity to his retirement
the Honourable B . Alasdair Graham :
honourable senators , when Winston Churchill the article a Digest the the GST the newspapers and the magazine the the CHST the Province great filmmaker the 1938 , he is the Permanent a compelling the Canadian life and the implementation of Robert Baden - Powell that he said consider as a the the three more concentrated worry that he has known .
the course , Baden - Powell , not was not the one of Whaling the the public . the forces personnel , he fonda also the movement global the the scouts .
Churchill wrote that the motto of the famous founder , the Sois prepared to the haste by all the one invitation to do its duty .
essentially prepared to defend the right and the truth , the kind and mar?es .
honourable senators , in looking the documents spent in the wonderful career of the senator Lewis Lewis , Q Q . - a life public statements the the service and the the duty - the I have found how the impact of the baron Baden - Powell the one Women .
Derek the summer during the Canadian and years , the the pillars of the Boy Scouts the the Canada , with the years , time , Secretary of the organization national , and the in the day , a the the vices - chairs honoraria the life .
the senator Lewis , all the other honourable senators , knowing , is a person . modest .
some may even the restructuring of Baden - Powell the Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
the legendary to the , the the time when the senator Lewis servait in the boy scouts , the senator Joan Cook , the motion today , his street the Chair , was a the the Girl the Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
during these long years of service dedicated , the senator Lewis has spent his efforts to the potential of the full potential of the young and the Canadian Airborne the citizens did the Canadian and individuals to the values ax?es the the public . the community and the their country , the ever losing of the Canadian community international .
the motto of Baden - Powell , the Sois prepared to the " Be Prepared the , the 24 , the method and the means to what has deadly mentalement and physiquement the make records , the the summer the Canadian this distinguished senator , I have always been so proud of the restructuring of real friend during the the years .
the senator has been admitted to the Bar the Newfoundland - Newfoundland , 1947 , both years , before the this nation , small but the numbers significantly , not go to the guys the Canadian Confederation Canadian .
this year , we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of this union , we say unfortunately , the bidding the the one of the son and clubbers the most outstanding , a man who has developed . the ability to a people warmest , r?sistant and dynamic , the people of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , the the service of the life policy of the country .
Winnipeg St. John ' and lawyer did , the senator Lewis has made his sense of the humour , known and the accuracy the salaries and the make the the air to the Senate . the Canada in the the appointment in March 1978 .
when I have met the senator Lewis for the first time , the Canadian political , a way based on the knowledge to the Canadian of the - Derek the summer the Newfoundland - Newfoundland steering or advance Main the many campaigns electoral federal .
the commitment and the reliability of the senator Lewis are well known in this place .
he has been member of 300 all the committee , the summer constitu?s by the Senate and was being the Canadian the respected the the one of work with the other members of how to a consensus on the the government legislation often complex .
the list is long and impressive , and the motion is the in the state .
during three years , and 1984 and 1986 , he has presided the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional , the the motion of the aviation been 1979 .
he has made the Canadian the committee Standing the the Rules and the Canadian Rules and , as the the Order been 1991 , the the committee on the Canadian and Orders , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules , for a period , the close as long , the one of the Canadian two decades .
the senator Lewis has made benefit of the very large the political the committee Standing the Canadian regulatory and the the other contributors regulatory .
he has presided the committee Joint Committee of the Canadian the regulatory for the most of the Canadian the present decade .
he has come . the Canadian the committee Joint the the presentations the the Parliament and the the committee Joint Special the Canadian Army the the Senate , the the summer set the the beginning of the years 1980 .
the this list have a long and career , the state of participation of the senator Lewis the the Senate . the committee Joint Special the the Entente constitutional the 1987 and the the committee Special the the bill to the C - 110 ( changes Constitutional ) the 1994 , 1996 .
he not there has a not be the the surprise that is debating Newfoundland - devoted to the spirit alerte and the the Just spontan? that prior to the the best innuendo the members include all the people , never served in the House .
he is renowned for the openness with the the lot the time , the soul and the energy the the service of the province and the Hon. the .
in quality of Senator , he has always understood that the Senate . the Canada , as I , I would ever , is the place . the Canadian the government , a workshop the the public comes to the motion win the respect and the professionalism the all of the two sides of the House .
the Derek Lewis , the the fact as the activities in the movement scout the the country , the seaway the the success , is still just r?sum?e the make the duty , the pagayer , as the the previous that Baden - Powell , with the heart and his face and the be prepared , as the senator Lewis the the ever been , the defence faithfully the right and the truth , what the Senate . context .
the and truth .
honourable and honour .
justice and fairness .
these words d?crivent the way , purposeful our colleague who we leaving .
he is the point of the support of the wife , the senator Lewis , the reinvent Grace , the motion of the powers today , in the gallery of the Gallery .
we are many in this chamber , the very long b?n?fici? the their friendship warm and the their hospitality generous .
all our best the Expenditure in their new business .
the Honourable C . William Doody :
honourable senators , I wish to my turn add my good best to those sentiments by my colleagues , the opportunity to the beginning to the retirement of our friend Derek Lewis .
i know the senator Lewis have failed years and the prior , the the time when we were St. John ' .
this is a man who dealt prepared to the average .
i can do firm that , for all these years , he not me , never been given the suggested the less critical or the less criticized the Hon. breach .
it is the so , notable that he has exercised the right to success during the this period .
but the most remarkable , the the motion that , being the practice of the right to the success that the " know , he has selected northern to the Liberal Party of the Canada , the the the operation of the " is the .
i do I recall that the one campaign campaign , federal or provincial , the reason the senator Lewis . the not in selected .
in the victory or the Great , Derek was always a gentleman , poli , the high , the single and m?ticuleux the the extreme .
in the , I have already heard that St. John ' s , at the most embarrassant in the life of Derek , the motion when he is the fact , a day , the cravate defeat .
the important , I , the the railways or the the perde , all its activities were always marqu?es by a nice one of humour nomination and sardonique the , the I , was particular , Derek Lewis .
the the Senate , I think that the the inoculation , the the to the work , the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional .
the senator Graham has very well enumerated , the fair as the the broad range of the completion Derek the part in this chamber .
he has made a job invaluable the the committee , the business legal , and his great knowledge of the right to the Hon. approach . " the practice and sensible the the respect to the Senate . the committee and the tasks that the the mandate will create the headwind .
the attendance of the senator Lewis in this chamber . , the course , a thing the us can all the proud and that we should seek the follow .
the not in about the " I have the the book the Claire Hoy , but I do I want to the the the the kind of the attention . the attention of the way .
i have served with Derek the the committee on the Canadian the Economy Economy , the the Economy , the the board during long and , that the , the work , the committee . will not forgotten , particularly by your servant .
the work of Derek the Newfoundland - Newfoundland in his profession , the dismantling by the same commitment and justice . the detail .
the career , as the lawyer , the pervasive for long , the cautious .
he has been counsel of the Chambre the Canadian Law Society of Newfoundland . 1962 , 1978 .
he is much the Canadian the Law Honorary of Newfoundland , 1979 .
honourable senators , Derek Lewis ; the right in the province of Newfoundland - Newfoundland has 1947 .
this was a , the shadow of the Confederation the the senator Graham has spoken .
i try to the basis , Derek was in favour of the Confederation or not .
he refuses the the " .
sometimes , he said that he is a Canadian , reluctantly .
he the fact , the past , but I know exactly what the that is that the
i try to discover the the fair to the was to the fight , because , as the honourable senators , in everything , the vote was very tight and the , the person - be the the grounds to make the one new recount .
Derek Lewis has played a role active in the business of our province and the country city .
the work with the the Boy Scouts the the Canada has been mentioned .
he is very useful to Newfoundland - Newfoundland for this and the Hon. the in the Game Fish whalers Society of our province and the various other organizations volunteers the are very important to the evolution orderly the Canadian society , Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
in the , Derek the role of the active in almost all .
he has generously the Hon. the year , the " the the the requested and we , in this . generosity .
i do copyright not in the details of the work of the senator Lewis for the Liberal Party , because of Senator Graham is much more put the I , the make .
the same , it is considerable not also flatteur from the I .
i wish to Derek and the Grace the relationship years of retirement .
i included the that the expressed the the homicide break the the Liberal Party as the the Senate , and said , the the reasons evident .
thank , Derek .
the Honourable Joan Cook :
honourable senators , the most of the us who virulent the Canadian life public , believing that he is possible . to a change the guarantee a better quality of life , all , he need to look my colleague and friend , the senator Lewis Lewis .
he has a force quiet , a noble extraordinary and a testament out of the common .
as Derek not lack no chance of the the council , the brevity is the soul of the intellect ; I say that just that my association with his wife and the cover quelque30 years political agit?es .
the challenges the summer many and Sandanista and we have known of the officials and the the lower .
if I ?crivais a book the the subject , I can tell the the senator Doody that is an a best , seller .
during this period , Derek was the tr?sorier provincial and the Liberal Party .
the applicants and the workers of initial campaign the bogeyman the the money aside all the with sufficient the money , they could win the victory .
i know that he has a patience of ange because the " the the very often the " the advisory in the meaning .
each time that we were d?faits , Grace was always , the Place the us comfort and the us to forget our only in the gavant the biscuits the the gingembre .
the Canadian first , he said that the not win not to the contempt and then , the the not the not the money , Urban the victory and that the " earned when the constituents had done in the .
as the I wish frustration these words immortelles that the prononc?es fire Don Jamieson the issue of the Heritage the Newfoundland - Newfoundland , because the provinces , d?crivent if the "
Derek and Grace , I would wish to the ever change and the have more during long - wind in the 1800 .
the Honourable Ethel Cochrane :
honourable senators , I am d?sol?e the look the senator Lewis we leave .
i know that we have always served the the blind association to the Senate , but , from all of the Newfoundland - Newfoundland , we have often been neighbours the Senate in the fare and we have also many lived the Canadian and operators and the the changes to itin?raire .
i do knew not the senator Lewis before the provinces , the Senate .
he just the Canadian Coast . the Newfoundland - Newfoundland and I , the West Coast , the most of 1 per kilometre the shortline .
the senator Lewis I was much fabric the extension these were months .
he I was served the rectitude for this period and the the continued to the years of the years of the giving the steady advice , and the that the " the gratuitement .
i do I have seen the senator Lewis d?prim? .
what the Senate . time to the foreign or the concerns political , the trade , the looking , starting the Derek Lewis for us down the morale .
he has a talent remarkable to the council of the blagues and the the inability to the good time .
the not know , the event , expect with him and the person recount the blagues the most dr?les , the esquisser a smile .
despite the spirit and the humour the the exception the Clerk of the friends , Derek Lewis was always very personalities , public .
he has always withdrawal jalousement his life private and not the ever them to do a junior the Hon. the and the the contribution .
he has suffered , successful in his life public , in the the Solicitor the fund to the great Conservative Liberal , member of the executive national the Hon. party and hide correctly and serious the the Senate . the Senate .
during the many years , he has served his party , the people of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the the Labrador and that the Parliament of the effective and effac?e , the ever ways to the in ballet the conditions accomplishments .
the Canadian be appointed to the Senate , Derek Lewis was a distinguished lawyer , actively St. John ' .
he was looking did and admired in the environment .
the the beginning of the career , he is the travail to Finton Aylward and the loss Crosbie .
this is therefore , Liberal am the the motion associated the the very conservative Finton Aylward , became the Canadian , Justice the Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the the Labrador , and the one young John Crosbie , the the known a retired career , as the Minister of the public . a government Conservative federal and the motion today , Chancellor the the University Memorial .
the record is that Derek Lewis have done . the one would clear , his voting and the difference of allegiance policy ?
i am sure that the chamber . the study . join the us to send their best wishes to Derek .
Derek and the wife , Grace , rail a home the the Meech Hogans , St. John ' .
i know that , for the summer , they put the baigner all the newspapers in the Meech .
i hope that they continue to benefit of the Meech Hogans and the all the other wonders the Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the the Labrador for the long years .
god you b?nisse , Derek .
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , the motion of Day sad to the Senate that the the us we say Adieu the one friend as the senator Lewis Lewis , the the interpretation contributed to the Senate . the legislative for the Canadian 20 years .
he is the undefeated a place special to the Senate , as a the work that he has done that the Hon. influence on the the people as I - the , the senator Cochrane and as the other , the people canvassed the advice and the support in their efforts to better understanding and to communications our role in this chamber .
the Newfoundland - established , and the particular , Senator Lewis , certain to the Parliament and the first , the the Senate . the Canadian , and a cold , readers the most of the other provinces , a so , fra?cheur Shipping the amount of their history , the Canadian the last province , the be attached to the Confederation , the the it has made the 31 March 1949 , the midnight the ten .
we have a learned of our colleagues , Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
we are we truthfully before the the benefits and the the inconv?nients the their new nationalit? .
i have certainly b?n?fici? the the intensit? the the patriotism that they have made to the Canada . whose a once the the emotion and the Canadian pride the land , and mothers Celtic .
Derek Lewis . is not a great parleur ; it is a man of action .
he still and the evolving .
when he finit by the Canadian speak , the the Senate to the Senate or the the very large committees where he has served , he the fact , due , wisdom and brevity .
i have also noticed the the years of the years , he not l?che not .
he is as a terrier with a thinning , the the high that a witness or a friend hidden that is a esquive a question .
i the I made during the the years , relieving the the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional .
when the great and difficult problems have surgi the the Senate in the matter constitutional the the changes to make the the system school of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , he I was given the very valuable advice .
the senator Lewis is a lawyer , the summer described by none other that the Antigonish land - neuvien , John Crosbie , as the one man quiet , but a great mind legal the .
he not hesitant not only the " in the Canadian d?monstration .
he not the situation . the one noviciate the the Senate that he attempting to change our institution , as the member of the committee Joint Special the Canadian Army the the Senate , the Canadian Chair of our Speaker of the the senator Molgat , in 1983 .
the senator Lewis has also m?tamorphos? the committee Joint the the examination of the regulatory , the the Senate before arid and the incompr?hensibles the the opinion of some , in a form of mediation , causant the Canadian dismay in some frustrations the Canadian and people who is the endormis in a false security in Delacourt that one . there pr?tait is the less attention .
as the other the people . out , the senator Lewis has been member of almost all the committee considered the the Senate ; the recently , he was the one of the personnagescl?s the the committee on the Canadian and business foreign .
however , in spite of the great experience and the Hon. except a the the responsibility to the Senate , the motion of the vigorous , the the openness , the Hon. the renovations the Canadian law and the the " to those who are less fortunate that we are I am honoured when I penserai the my friendship with the senator Lewis .
the the the fact before the enthusiasm the opportunity to serve the public , he not the ever forgotten the the the just not more than the needs and the strength of the people of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , his province . - core , the the voue a great guy .
the same , the the public . my own party , the Liberal Party , the not putting not St. John ' s call Derek .
what the Senate , falls the work , or the time , he is still at the honourable .
i have bross? a picture the ang?lique the my pride friend , but I will also noted that he has a sense of the humour endiabl? , the the motion of a storyteller , and that he not d?daigne not a good rasade the rhum .
he has said that the human that the retirement content the most is the wife Grace , the the the ever seconded . d?faillance , the time , the motion initiated in a new career , he has made leave of Prince regularly , weekly , weekly , for the two years decades .
it . " long - and lifestyles which the planet .
i would wish to all of the many years of happiness the .
Derek not the not yet decided to what challenges the hard now , really , but , what the people are , I , encourage the not . whose the tricot .
honourable senators , the senator Lewis is unborn the Newfoundland - Newfoundland , 1924 .
after his studies of the " the University Memorial , St. John ' s , is presenting the the Chambre the this province , 1947 .
he ; the right St. John ' s , Ernst Lewis , Sally , helped The Sheppard .
in 1961 , he played Grace Knight .
in 1964 , he is appointed board of the Queen ; it is counsel of the Bar the Newfoundland - Newfoundland . 1962 , 1978 .
he is appointed to the Senate . 1978 .
the senator Lewis is a lawyer , the practice private .
this is the teachers and Women his life .
since his arrival the the Senate , he was for the the years , member , active the the committee , the business legal and Constitutional , the Hon. good reputation . is the " to the
the senator Lewis has presided the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional , the 1984 , 1986 , the co - Committee Joint the the examination of the regulatory , the 1994 , 1997 , and the summer member of the committee for the many years .
he has also served in a number performance the other committees : the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules , the Committee of Selection , the committee Joint Special the Canadian Army the the Senate , the 1980 to 1983 , and the committee Joint Special the the Senate and the Canadian House of the House of the Entente constitutionelle the 1987 , in 1987 and the 1988 , and other .
the the said that the great contribution of the Senate , the are the Senate to improve the the government legislation and his work in committee .
the senator Lewis is a man of Committee and a great expert in the Canadian law .
i wish to the midst do .
the Honourable Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , let - I , share with you some other places the the subject of the Honourable Senator Lewis Lewis , the start by the time when we are we refuse the friendship , I believe .
the the would thought in a conte the Edgar Allan Poe : " revision a laudable monotone , the I broyais the the darkness - to
the course , the time . was not . " the so unbecoming , but I was only in my office , the Canadian mezzanine the the Senate , about four months after the summer appointed to this chamber , and I commen?ais the in the one of marre .
this evening , that , the the disasters doucement the Canadian the Canadian my office .
this was the honourable Lewis and Bonnell .
Derek the said : " We Plan you find more , and we are ask the the honourable plairait the us closer the China . "
he not had little not heard the famous that I had the paletot the the walk and that I franchissais the door .
since the Order , Ross and I are paying the the friends deepest , I believe , the Derek and the Canadian , Natalie Grace the .
in the , we shock the Canadian , too little over a years , because the it is very rewarding .
i have enjoyed all the times that we have tenure the .
he was always this and branch the the time .
he maintained to the Canadian , the Canadian each day .
each time that the interrogation of a client shaking the languir , he possession a question , ranimait the discussion and the grass a perspective totally new the the bill to the " the study or may , the same a matter unforeseen .
the chairman of Committee know , what the the motion is that the right motion be introduced to the good time , and the looking , starting the Derek to this .
the meaning of the " - to the ever been no such and the opinion on the deliberations of the committee , quite reliable , because , as the other the people have said , the knowledge of Law is usually .
as all the Newfoundland - established the most of 50 years , Derek the single the the time to become Canadian .
in the , he the motion become the Hon. body defending .
i believe that he has voted the the least a time , the coming of Newfoundland - Newfoundland in the Confederation .
in the , he contrasted the the was a very bad idea .
a time that the Canada is involved in Newfoundland - Newfoundland , however , he is the interested in the political Canadian with enthusiasm - with time , the press the enthusiasm , the - be .
Derek , I hope that you ?crivez a book .
the disaster not . " the senator Cook !
racontez the frasques the the world , the time when you have graduated the ordures the the snout the the troops the blood former associated in your consideration of lawyers and the the honourable you have the in the coffre - in the the board .
the course , it goes to the time d?testable the Derek was associated with a number John Crosbie , the the previous was a Liberal famous or malfam? the the other place .
i am hasten the state that Derek is today , and the mechanics , the the the the said , the the least .
Derek , sir friend , the number of the people who have said , today , the provinces McGrath you miss the said long - the kind of human that you are .
i know that you , missed angry .
you advice happening , your assistance reliable and your wonderful and distinct , the the humour will I missed .
this , I missed , the I believe , the motion of the the one real friend Celtic all the day . walls .
i would adequate that we resterons the communication and that we demeurerons friends , the " distance .
the Honourable Consiglio Di Nino :
honourable senators , I wish to speak to a place within the Canadian contribution of the senator Lewis the the Canada and the the Canadian that you not aware that the be not to the most .
you have the - be noted that , when we are rencontrons , we are giving the labour left the the Canadian right .
this is the not the sign the one from secr?te , but the Canadian a wonderful society , the many , the the Canada .
the senator Lewis is for long a member dedicated and z?l? the the movement scout , a passion that we share .
this movement . the the contribution of the Canadian and ways , including the the vacancy recently chairman of the Honorary the the board national , a guest the " the so . LAVs .
blessed - you live , the many years of happiness .
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators ,
these words , writing by Rudyard Kipling , not have the entire clearly not been writing in diplomatic the Derek Lewis , but it was the act of the one as Derek Lewis .
honourable senators , the the Senate , we used the formulation the honourable colleagues , in the ability to each of the other , but one , not . the Honourable the Derek Lewis .
Derek Lewis was the and the ever , a man . nomination .
he is far am the the achievements , and the in the known many , are account only to the work and the the efforts .
the senator Lewis . the ever thought that the use of the to reach the the purpose personal .
the not have been able run Derek the act to the background of the one in the hope the suggestion , the same , because Derek belief the the contrary , he enrichirait his own life in helping the other .
the so Derek the successful as privilege and Parliamentary , I , see , as a man generous , with a sense of the humour delicate , the the ever been there for me support , the the manner approves , but clear .
when I have defended the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional , with the senator Nolin to my sides as chairman of the , the senator Lewis was the other member of the committee steering .
when I have been Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate , I knew that he was always , the loan to help quiet but r?solument .
Derek and Grace the reception received all the members of the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the Hogans Pond , Newfoundland - Newfoundland , when we are we made in this province to the study of the Canadian the system school .
as Derek the tainted . " , I had few scientists to the subject of this amendment .
i must confess that I thought , the Canadian contrarier Derek that the contrarier the government .
Derek will I missed the this place .
the press , innocuous visits the Grace the Ottawa will also I missed .
i would wish to many years of a retirement pleased , the , in their province ador?e , including the Hogans Pond .
i hope that we resterons the Polish because the the good friends are few and that they are the best friends of all those who are aware .
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , the the opportunity to his retirement , we add today , pay the country friend Derek Lewis , the man modest and 40 of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , the fact , long and fiftieth career , the Senate .
the motion ? the not a chance . route to take the time , we remember the balance glance that the Senate supports the country life public and that the principles discrets , almost sinews , the inoculation our work here is the skill of faith ?
when I am time to Ottawa to the first time , 1966 , for work as editor of cabinet the one of the " I was explained that he was safe that I am seek the the work of the Senate .
i knew . , the things on the way , the Senate operated .
the one day ensoleill?e the July , I have asked a big - you , by the through the Torrance Wiley , with a old friend , was then Deputy executive of the Honourable John Connolly , the mighty Leader of the government to the Senate .
the " the act invited to the meeting .
i am glad in the wonderful board of emotional lambriss? and the enlightened located in the Canadian the Senate , the the other side of the Brandenburg , clerical that organization now , the Leader of the government to the Senate .
in the two decades , later , when I have had the opportunity to be appointed Senate , a old friend , the senator Godfrey , the father of John Godfrey , the the other place , the motion immediately the in the with me .
the senator Godfrey I was given the book Red the the Rules and the Senate and the " the said : " to Respectez the Rules and the Senate . bonds . "
the following , the Scotians - Brunswickois the the success , I , the senator McElman , I was said that the work of the committee , the was the soul of the Senate .
he I was reminded that , the so , most of the us we a vacancy to a party , we could remodeler a bad policy government quiet , the Television or amidst , by the inclusion of the deliberations of the committee committees .
he I was exhort? the work hard to the public . the committee .
i am I met the senator Ian Sinclair the , the the time , just . That the be appointed to the Senate .
before the the pooling , with gracefully , the part of the General of the Canadian Pacific , a the the most significant companies , the Canada , and the was a Bluenose bequeath in the worlds of the business .
the senator Sinclair the said that the experience in the business . was conditioned that the best job - and , therefore , the best job . " the Senate , is the the motion realized by the honourable them , the .
he has said that a good work , the Senate and the the committee apporterait his own award the form of satisfaction personal .
finally , the senator MacEachen the Canadian Nova Scotia Nova Scotia , former leader of the government to the Senate , I was reminded the numerous occasions , and the eighth the all the honourable the the side - the , the order to maintain our own credibility and the Canadian the Senate , we we keep our disappear with the other place to the end of the corridor , the the other place . the other side of the street .
the hearing of the advice . the fact that the the Senate . the late that yesterday , when the senator Murray has raised the question of the study pre .
the senator MacEachen the motion strongly opposed to the study pre - and initiatives event , because it was to the undesirable the deficit the credibility of the Senate . as the House of reflection , in the the House independent of the other place , the the other place . the other side of the street , in the the House independent the our own most and the most of the public , the service comes we are .
the result , the my argument , honourable senators , he is to the the Senate . glance balance between the principles .
the Flame the the power to the other place . , attirante , but if we are in contemplation too , our work and the Senate , the same seasons the be so transfers , cendres .
this are the first principles that I have glan?s the the subject of the Senate .
the principles and the practice be the Canadian fine .
the that , honourable senators , in turn of Prince the the honour to the wish to the my good friend Derek Lewis , the us leaving for a retirement . retirement .
the my eyes , Derek the incarn? all these principles .
he knew our institution .
he has earned a knowledge encyclopaedic the the rules of the Senate and respected his automotive .
in the Senate . the committee , he was the artisan by excellence .
Derek was perseverance , m?ticuleux , trains , witty and vigour .
he is still remained the shortline respectueuse the the power .
in a word , Derek was the senator , Ordre and the lawyer , Ordre .
in the meaning , he is a representative of a tree the most of the odd the the Senate .
the all these reasons and the the company the us miss , the beginning decide a great vacuum to the Senate .
Derek , you are the the end of your travail .
your work is accomplished .
you and Grace m?ritez largely the living a clone retirement , the health .
as the said in the Prairie Jewish : " Puissiez - you live in the health from the 120 years . "
god you b?nisse .
the Honourable Landon Pearson :
honourable senators , when I am I noted , the Senate to the first time , the face of Derek Lewis has been the one of the first ministers of the amounts of the mob the the faces unknown are I have had to the all the day in this chamber .
he was amical , but tell .
i am fiais the Hon. mood to the the the importait or not in this chamber .
i strongly . the importance to the five years , I have shared with Derek in this chamber and the Canadian knowledge that he I was tainted in the Michaud inimitable .
i ch?ris also the fact that he I was said regularly that he I knew the so that my and the so that she .
Derek Lewis will . we miss and I am join the all the honourable senators , today , for the wish to the the " Grace , the opportunity .
that their lives , the Senate , and the rich and the divertissante that they not so , imagine now .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I am pleased to the honour with my colleagues , the senator Lewis Lewis .
i have met the senator Lewis for the first time here , not in the the senator , but the so that son of Senator .
the senator Lewis was a friend future of my father , the Queen the the Senate to the time .
the " the the report as a person . special .
a the the great plaisirs the question his . was the power , I also on the friendship the the senator Lewis .
the us . , the the the senator Lewis was a man remarkable , a senator , a lawyer , a counsel of Her Majesty paid in the and , the - be more important , the one volunteer in his community .
i the compliment to this and I , in whom .
the senator Lewis has represented . the the , the Canadian better to the Senate by the dignity serene , his great competency and the work relentlessly .
he knows that the motion be to do away our institution .
he not there has not the the senator Lewis the effect , retirement today , however ,
he is also enjoy the Canadian contribution of Grace .
i the deep the have tolerated the many things , Derek .
we remercions also the vast the long date of the senator Lewis , Sallie .
senator Lewis , profitez the blood retirement .
you have worked hard .
you missed the the Senate .
i would wish to retire long and fruitful .
we hope you see many with Grace .
the way serene , strong and effective , you have served your province and your country with distinction .
you get a we miss .
the Honourable M. Lawson :
honourable senators , the Canadian and that the summer shower the the subject of the career extraordinary and the the achievements of the senator Lewis , but to the people of the West , he is still wonder the meeting that a reformer the one bel mind and the one wonderful , the the humour as the senator Lewis .
we are all of this has very long , but the country took , he is the one old senator who we had devanc?s been down lurette .
this old senator said repeatedly that the the time , die , he was the intent of the ones with him , and the was challenging .
he just the this contr?e .
he has given to each of Eurasia cigarettes per $ $ the cash and their the said that , when he mourrait , he did the individual the one tabled the envelope in the Tory cigarettes the restes .
the old senator is death .
the three men and faithfully follow the consigne and the report their envelope in the cercueil .
the the path of the back , the doctor the said that he was a collective the make .
the needs of the hospital were the criants , particularly since the the government had sabr? in the Estimates , the the one puis? 25 per $ in the envelope .
the pasteur r?pondit that the so that a collective the make .
the needs of the Church were the criants that he was touch 40 per $ .
the senator Lewis their words , they should be shame the have touched the Canadian the " and promise solemn and the the assura that he was made the field of correspondence in the cercueil the envelope cigarettes a cheque , the the amount of 100 per $ .
what the members of problems that you concealed in this chamber , when the same you porteriez the negative the the world . your mutter , when you rencontrez the senator Lewis , which you . the smile .
he r?pand the Archdiocese around the the with the personalities , the homeland mind and the wonderful , the the humour .
senator Lewis , you we missed !
the Honourable L?once Jeffrey :
honourable senators , he I have made to the honour today , the the senator Lewis Lewis , the the motion distinguished by the meaning of the justice and the spirit of morality .
i have contributed appreciate the qualities of the Newfoundland - devoted .
the senator Lewis has exercised the part of stuff and provincial .
the intellect and the meaning of the humour the leading to make a balanced of the chamber , the
is a tenacity the motion rare !
the senator Lewis latter the dicton the said : " Soyez approach to you , the " , the motion of Human the Canadian speak . the case , a man reliable which is the make trust .
i hope that all the Newfoundland - established are pareils , the senator Lewis has established a standard the will find the ports .
senator Lewis , your province and your country are proud of your services .
i would question . my best .
the Honourable P . Derek Lewis :
honourable senators , I thank the honourable to their wonderful .
the so that was in the part waited , I do contesterai not , particularly not the kind of contaminated the my respect .
i congratulate the field of the other .
i have had the privilege of the member of this chamber , a little more of 21 years .
i have a warm the have had the possibility of the privilege to the the chamber as diverse , informed and progress , and I , I honoured .
during the years , I have verified here , I am I have several friends families , I ch?rirai , the friendship .
i have made happy to work with the honourable the the two sides of the House .
my nomination regret , the motion that the circumstances I have forced this last year , either that the my own and the not have been so as to knowledge with the honourable appointed recently , the Senate .
he was a time when I do I souciais or the the world . the political or the the players .
however , when I am , I interested the close to me involving personally , I have gone including all those who rely on this 1879 and learned the sympathiser with them .
the the beginning , the motion of curiosity the " the forced to take the " the life policy .
as some of the honourable senator know , a time that the the extent in a bill , the the very committed in a jam the go to the in the vaccine , and the finit by becoming accroch? .
some of Parliament , if impr?visibles that I am slight time lost .
he appropriate , the my opinion , the end of the one of the direction to the intent of the honourable newly appointed , but only to explain the Orders , but also to the frigate the the different services and facilities the " and whereas .
in the Canadian and the , I do I found in that the following the vow the question to the the chamber , as the the fact , Senator Cook .
this is really ourselves , since this information is available , the Canadian condition of the the Canadian ways .
the the years of the years , and the new senators , expressed the same concern .
i believe that the , since I years , the the government . was taken to improve the things .
he is definitely important that the new senators , familiarisent as the possible with the Rules and the Senate .
i have been for the many years , the Senate . different committees and I have a warm the experience , the the the vice time difficult .
i have been made impressed by the quality and the exhaustivit? the the examinations are we are livrions .
as the other , I , the fact participant , the work in committee is the one of the activities of the important to the Senate .
i think , the two committees . the .
a the the first committees are I have been the summer the committee Joint the the examination of the regulatory .
he is called differently the the time .
working with the staff and the representatives of the committee was a pleasure .
they perform if the the work ennuyeux the challenge to study and the relative to the regulations and the Canadian Rules .
the the public . the committee , I have evolved the various hire the , the the side of the Senate , the former senators Lafond , Forsey , Godfrey and Nurgitz , and that the senator Grimard .
our chairman , ending is the senator Hervieux - Payette .
i have also chaired for a number of the committee .
i have also been for the long member of the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional , the the ever been a the the committee , the ambulance the the Senate .
i have had the pleasure , c?toyer the the chairs as the former senators Stanbury , Nate and Nurgitz , and that the honourable Beaudoin , Carstairs , Milne .
the work of the committee was very interesting and a .
the leadership level , the people , editor of adversity the interpretation contributed to the achievements of the committee .
i speak now words , the Canadian the reform of the Senate , the years , at the Canadian , the , the the subject of many of discussions and the controversy .
i disagree that the following my appointment here , the question of a Reform to the make the the Senate . body elected , the new surgi .
in 1980 , a committee Joint the the two Houses of the Parliament , the investigator to the study of the ways , the Senate might be reformed , the Canadian initiatives the role of Ontario , the people of all the regions .
i have been appointed to the committee , the was co by the Honourable Senator Molgat and the Honourable Paul Cosgrove .
after the government . many meetings in various regions of the country and the course , the evidence , the representations and the discussions , the committee is out of the conclusion and the fact , the the two Houses that the Senate should be elected by the people and the the remarks of the suggestions on the way of the , to the
the report . was tabled in 1984 .
as the Middle the honourable senators , no . the difference for the time .
i commend the the honourable the comments the report .
you find that the committee . the motion made that the Canadian . the knowledge , the Senate should be set of people named or elected .
the committee . was not to determine whether the Canada should be a system bicameral the government or the the courts on the powers and devoirs the incomberaient the one second House .
the the years of the years , these issues . in the part of process for the .
the my opinion , the are the the issues cruciales concerning the then , first question before the sole the method of Selection the the people who choose the Canadian a moment second House of the criteria the number of senators , the region or the province .
the this regard , I am out that the senator Joyal is the gap the joint a committee officieux the distinguished academic to study . the .
in the Canadian and the the the objective , the senator Joyal is described in the press as the Sir Galaad the the Senate .
we have forward to know the results of this study and the recommendations of the person - be made .
in closing , I would thank all the the assistance to you , you brought in my work , the Senate to the years of the years .
i thank all the employee and the officials to their kindness and their cooperation .
i wish to thank all particularly my secretary , Sallie DeLaplante , the motion of the Canadian gallery , for his loyalty , the support and the effectiveness , if long .
the course , I thank my dear wife Grace , the " the time did the the years of this period .
let - I , unconditional a last thing .
this is the not a question of privilege .
he seems that he is that a farceur the the Senate .
he not there has not be long , probably by the to my age and I comfort , the the single a coverage the my office .
i know that the fact that the
the senator Di Nino :
this is probably Grace !
the senator Lewis :
this is possible , but I will the lurch the the next occupying the this fortune .
i would thank the blood patience and you that my best wishes to the future .
the the Hon. the
hear !
Maxwell Tabled '
the Late the Allan Austin Lamport , O . C .
tributes
the Honourable Francis William Mahovlich :
honourable senators , the former mayor of Toronto , Allan Austin Lamport , is away .
Allan Austin Lamport , marks the the Order of the Canada , member of the Assembly legislation . the Ontario , the Canadian the board of Transport and Toronto and the Canadian the Aviation Royal the the Canada , was known the the name of the Lampy the by the friends .
i have the Canadian knowledge of Lampy the my arrival the Toronto , the the beginning of the years 50 .
in 1953 - widening , the m?tro the summer inaugurated and Lampy was mayor .
this was a boon to all those who aspire work , the Maple Leaf Gardens .
the practical the hockey , the school not mark not a the time to the room of the night or to the students .
the m?tro allowed to save the the time .
the mayor was famous for his impropri?t?s or his replacement the Canadian Yogi Berra .
( the the the United - United have Yogi Berra , the Canada was Allan Lamport . )
in here , the few :
the " lampyismes the people were to Lampy a weapon except the the years of the career policy .
the man who , niait the allegations and the d?fiait . alligator the the reactionaries , does : the Red Ensign , the Aviation Royal Canadian , a passage of diffamation the one chauffeur the taxi and the constituency St. David' s , the the the lost to the Universit the William Dennison when he has been transf?r? the Canadian Coast . , in 1945 .
this is the 1945 , I believe , the motion born her the senator Milne , the motion record of daughter the William Dennison .
well , the in 1994 , the 40,000 years after the the theme inaugurated the m?tro and that I fus came to Toronto , we have all of the the Order of the Canada .
a thing that I could pr?dire the the subject of Lampy , the motion of the the assoirait in the Hot Stove Lounge the the Maple Leaf Gardens .
i entrais , I suspendais my manteau and I chapeau , I was a half - Plus the right and Lampy was that , in good politician that he was the serrant the labour the all the invitation came to the Ch .
is a - few of the quotations the most stick the be central the the man who has authorized to Toronto , sports the Sunday .
now , for the conclusion final , Lampy , the the previous , the honourable as the the man , the side dealing .
that God you b?nisse !
the Honourable Peter A . Stollery :
honourable senators , I have seen the senator Mahovlich Sunday night , the salon fun?raire the council Allan Lamport .
i wish I do the original the the remarks to the the reasons personal .
my father , Alan Stollery , was a great education . Allan Lamport .
i am recall , during my duty , the events such as the authority to the sports the Sunday , the Prime bill to terminate social the the Canada and all the other accomplissements the Allan Lamport , the the fault no doubt the the most of Bethlehem the Toronto , the century .
business routine
fisheries
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , pursuant to the article 104 the the Rules and the Senate , I have the honour to table the Prime report of the committee on the Canadian and Oceans , the the Estimates incurred by the committee during the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament .
security and services of security
tabling of the Prime report of the committee Special
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , the the name of the senator Kelly and under the the article 104 the the Rules and the Senate , I have the honour to table the Prime report of the committee Special the the Senate on the safety and the services of security , the the Estimates incurred by the committee during the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report found to the Journals of the Senate . today , the motion
internal Economy , Budgets and Administration
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , pursuant to the article 104 the the Rules and the Senate , I have the honour to table the Prime report of the committee on the Canadian the Economy Economy , the the Economy , the the board , the the Estimates incurred by the committee to the years of the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report found to the Journals of the Senate . today , the motion
security of the Transportation
tabling of the Prime report of the committee Special
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , pursuant to the article 104 the the Rules and the Senate , I have the honour to table the Prime report of the committee Special the Canadian Transportation of the Transportation , the the Estimates incurred by the committee for the first session of the th Parliament .
the adjournment
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 58 ( 1 ) at ) the the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate adjourns today , the the remaining adjourned until the traditional next , the 30 November 99 , the 14 at the
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
business legal and Constitutional
notice of Motion During the committee to sit in the time that the Senate
the Honourable Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I give notice that Tuesday next , the 30 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the power to sit the 1 December 1998 , the 15 at 1:30 , the so , the Senate to the time , that , and that the application of the rule 95 ( 4 ) the the Rules the sitting , this regard .
privileges , Standing and Orders
leave to the committee , sitting , the time that the Senate
the Honourable Serge Joyal :
honourable senators , with the leave of the s?nat and notwithstanding the rule 58 ( 1 ) , " the the Rules , I move :
that the Committee on the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules the power to sit in December at 1:30 , the duration , the so , the Senate , the date , the end of December 1998 , to the the committee can look the question of privilege raised by the Honourable Senator Bacon , the the issues of privilege of the honourable senators Andreychuk and Kinsella , and that the application duparagraphe 95 ( 4 ) the the Rules the sitting , this regard .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I - I heard the senator Joyal , 15 at 1:30 or 16 at 1:30 in his motion ?
the senator Joyal :
i have said 16 at 1:30 .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
i thought that the Speaker pro tempore the said at 1:30 p.m. .
the one time , honourable senators , we are before the CCN the committee , wish to the same time that the Senate .
we should be the be entitled to the committee have set their at the Chair , before the Whole the the powers .
the situation is completely invers?e .
four committees . the day . " to sit in the time that the Senate .
i would the honourable , reflect .
the committee seem to perturber the Senate . the Senate .
i agree that the Senate . the committee . important , but we have the the responsibility important to fulfil here . .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , the senator Lynch - Staunton , Chief of the Opposition , the point of argument valid .
this is a point of the us we are committee . the , for trying to the provinces , a decision , as the the importance of Senator Lynch - Staunton , the the times when the committee could be the committee . perturber unduly the Senate . the Senate .
when I have made in the the back to the Senate , I do I felt not also one that I am a date , then , the blind the vident the most of the " the the the following the afternoon advance .
the Honourable Peter A . Stollery :
he would be the be a that we revoyions this issue in the time that the Canadian and committees , members of the time that the Senate .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Defence down
the replacement of the squirrel the helicopters Sea King
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate . the the the assurance , which we accept , the the replacement of the Sea King in the Canadian and operations a?ronavales is a great priority of the Minister of the National Defence .
he is the two days , the Secretary Parliamentary the the Minister has said , in response to a question raised in the House of the House , the Canadian decision became the the Minister and that it is sought the Hon. the .
today , the the subamendment , Chief of the - Chief of the Defence , the the the forces personnel have signed the presentation of the need to the end of June or the the beginning of July .
otherwise , the the Minister failed been done a good time .
why expected - the ?
the motion ? " away the the intent stated in the book white the Canadian Defence of 1994 , the reason , the employee , the one priority and that the , mind , this is it . the decade ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
as the the latest the senator , he seems that the the Senate pr?liminaires have been conducted the the subject of this decision .
when I melds that the the assurance that I have received the the Minister , the knowledge that this decision upon his great priority , I have a hope that a decision will go in a future . speculation .
the replacement of the squirrel the helicopters Sea King - Government Position of ?vacuer the troops the the areas chauds
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , these signs encouraged meant five years , later .
the patient not to the not very well .
the Minister is the the armed the the operation Cobra , the the in the the , the few years , the us we should the the Sea King , the the case where we would forced to ?vacuer the the troops the Canadian Bosnia .
some 4 500 military the the Canadian Forces are now , whatever in the the coastal dangerous , in the world world .
what kind of equipment utiliserions - we to ?vacuer these people and the governing the place that , if we we do with the one such need today , the
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the senator Forrestall knows that the officers senior are the no doubt , in the Canadian symbols the need to win Supplementary , and the the fact , wherein .
we have the the equipment , is the operation been very long and the Minister of the National Defence , is the as fast the make replace the equipment the most efficiently possible .
in the the concerns of Sea King Helicopters , the Honourable Senator has said and continues to discharge that the program of Alternative not informed not enough to the
i do I speak to the the the motion a in the past , but I hope that we reach the extent of Brandon this equipment in a matter reasonable .
honourable senators , I do I do a strategist military , but I know that he is the some types of ownership the cases , the " includes the the staff and the the equipment to the the regions of the world where we are called the wishes .
he is hope that this imperative the " the motion served recently remains the .
the senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , I am concerned , the well - be the the members of the Canadian Forces .
they pilots in the the aircraft which , when they are utilisables , not have the land that the one brief period .
the equipment is older and the test .
the last or before the last , we have had ?vacuer a school the the Cape - Cape because the one regarding Hercules the ?prouv? the the problems of extreme and the have the question , by the Canadian pr?caution the the best , but it is a probably the one atterrissage the emergency .
we do know that the the Labrador are pointing the the soil .
we versons10 million . $ , for Senate to the table and the knowledge . the will the move .
this is aimed to the us can replace the F - 18 .
if the person spending 140 million . $ the left et147 million . $ the right , why not . ways to obtain the part of the philosophy the the new Cormorant or Sikorsky to the government that they are legal the Information wide the the requirements operational sub in the purpose of the needs that we have established for the us we began to consider the Upholder the the EH - 101 ?
why not we , we not buy that new material and the use ?
honourable senators , the people start to believe that the actions of the government . amoraux , they finiront soon by that the people are immoraux .
jumping the the Canadian and the not leading .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I share of concern to the Honourable Senator , as all the other senators , the , in the the concerns of security of our military and their effectiveness Defence .
the equipment the us about the one stock complex , and the the equipment complex get the image the damage .
in the , the the equipment complex nine ethics time , suffered and the need to be mined .
i think that he is fair to say that the program of Alternative is already in the seaway the potential .
the program of Alternative the the subamendment , maintenance considerable the one funding to live the most of three quarters of billion . $ .
a helicopter destined to replace the helicopter the research and the search Labrador costs , the internal million . $ .
these programs . in the .
the replacement of the squirrel the helicopters Sea King - Request for body of the purpose of the needs
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
the Minister of setting the " Poverty here , the Canadian House , the purpose of the needs to the respect to the program , is already realized ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I will I shall seek the the Minister and I suivrai the practice usual to table the document .
the industry
the ligue national the hockey - Government Position of a balancing government to the inspection
the Honourable David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
this week , the board City of Kanata the announcement that he frustration of 75 per - taxes fonci?res the the Centre Corel .
the amount and ?conomis?e would then copy of the team of the town of Ottawa .
the government has the the intent of help the team of the town to the the Treasury federal ?
a moment for the it flair also of all the inspection of hockey Canadian ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , Mr. Manley , the Minister responsible for the issues of the kind , the indicated that he Roles various options as the one some help federal .
obviously , this , recent the was welcome in the process .
the person is that it is encouraging in the context overall .
however , the Minister Manley has indicated that , the the the the is the one . in the right direction , he will still have brought before the the government , not take a decision .
the the Order , the Minister . the way no decision to my knowledge .
the senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , what are the major objections the the idea of help financially the inspection of hockey professional ?
the senator Boudreau :
i do I do paraphrasing the objections raised by the different stakeholders during the debate , honourable senators ,
they will have enough , contributed .
however , I can assume that the the coalition the this view , because of the salaries high the the protocol , the subject of the salaries of the amounts of the inspection .
i do formula not these points .
i ?mets only to the ferries .
the the window Mr. Manley , the government has clearly said that he ?tudierait the question , but that the that assumed a encha?nement the events .
the most recent , the motion ? " - that the decision of the board City of Kanata , is positive .
however , the the the I can say , the honourable senators , the motion that the Minister . is not yet prepared to announce a decision .
the senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , I am quite arriving .
i do none not the grants what the provinces are .
however , I have thought that the government , would all the efforts imaginables to give the the money to the town of Ottawa would give the the money to the the people who , earn have a not . not the the first came to the Liberal federal .
the CHST the example , the year , the Canadian Corporation CBC - Canada has received 844 million . $ .
the year 81 , it was given 903 million .
if I do I understand , the chairman and the chairman of the Canadian this society touch of 200 $ and watched $ $ by year .
the homes of Beauchesne , from 31 643 742 $ the year , the
the chairman and the steering the the board of the Canadian the Rogers Cable touch , the 1 million . $ by year , but it is the not the the stars the the fatalities , wear all the samedis night before the $ the 2,450 .
the book Blue , the Estimates Main the the Estimates , everything . the other examples of the same acabit .
the the grants . the specific to the door and the facilities the television .
the giving the the money for ourselves to the Institut that one . " have seen ; and de and the producers touch of 50 per $ and 200 $ $ by Film , the subject of their mortgage Annual .
Mr. . Manley believes - the one only deal that he not help not the inspection and the protocol the hockey the the small communities . the Prairies and the the back - country . the Ontario ?
the government should be shame .
the the plan cultural , the hockey is much more important to the Canada . all these cases which I have heard .
you discussed obligations . cheques as tomorrow .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am delighted to see that the senator has the the ideas , opinionated on the question .
i do bring not the in the government to the Canadian law .
i have thought a moment that the senator was the the point of Murphy the principles NDP - NDP the , in the Canadian development economic , prefers to the the money to those who , pale rather than the most of knowing the ultimate .
the senator Tkachuk :
this is the philosophy Liberal !
the senator Boudreau :
answers delayed the Canadian and the control
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I have the answer to the the issues raised in the Senate . 16 November 99 by the honourable senators Gustafson , Sparrow and Spivak .
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis crop to the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan - Government Position of a program of credit crop - Conformity program of the in the Canadian origin related to the income crop - Conformity effectiveness of the program , - 03 the the applicants
( response to the issues raised by the Leonard J . Gustafson , the Honourable Herbert O . Sparrow and the Honourable Mira Spivak the 16 November 99 . )
the crisis crop to the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan - Government Position of a program of credit crop
the Corporation of the credit crop ( SCA ) includes the state of the situation in the the odd . the Canadian farmers . the Prairies .
it has a single the Right a mechanism to the information of the path with his clients the Canadian Saskatchewan and the the Manitoba , anticipent the the difficulties to the the help to find the the solutions .
the chamber , the obvious are suffering the make their payments despite the drop of the years of the food .
the Canadian reseller the October , seniors per - and accountability were to the " the international national compared to patterns per the Saskatchewan .
he not there has not have the increase nicotine the the levels of arr?rages , the the people are the Canadian increase .
in Saskatchewan , the Canadian reseller the October , 1 267 clients were in arr?rages compared to 953 the Canadian , piled the year , the aged that the the Manitoba , these figures were clauses of 243 and 241 .
he is thrown that he is the usual a variety before the the effects of a crisis on the market . the position feel the the levels of arr?rages .
the SCA continue to the " the situation . in the the years of the next year .
the the stadium - the , the best way of help the obvious the treaties the the difficulties . the work closely with them to the same the the solutions the their will the extension this crisis .
in the the corporation the state federal , the SCA is prepared to play the role of instrument of political public that the the municipalities .
as I , I mentioned , the majority of the obvious of the SCA the same to their payments to their deadline .
the program of the in the Canadian origin related to the income crop ( ACRA )
the recent , the government , the said , cash de170 million . $ , the the door the assistance offered by the government . the Canada , the Canadian a billion . $ .
the government . the Canada has made to the changes to the time to the ACRA and the the CSRN to the one more a number of producers are eligible to a balancing financial .
here some of the major changes :
since September , the producers can ask a compensation interim the the CHST the the ACRA the their jobs . receive a balancing immediate the Supplementary the 60 per - the total of the subpoena concerning the people , for 1999 .
the 4 November , 1999 , the Minister of the Agriculture and the the Agroalimentaire the announcement that the government , couvrira to the 70 per - and marges negative the the producers to notice and 1999 .
the the year civil 99 , the producers will choose , a single time , the period of reference to the will based on calculating the people allowances .
since September , the business enterprises the the fiscal fiscal is considered to the purpose of the tax on the income can be immediately a r?clamation the the CHST the the ACRA to 99 .
the changes alter the the CSRN undoubtedly , the producers to obtain the the fund :
the floor of the Canadian the income minimum of the CSRN is spent the 10 per $ the 20 per $ to a particular and the 20 per $ the 35 $ $ to a family , farmers .
the leadership , the CSRN can now do a withdrawal and a closer to the years of the same year .
the period of Tax to the avances the withdrawal the summer absence the one year ( the was the 1990 days ) the the producers the people out a significant Superior the same the reason they had a the Constitution of the separate the intervention .
the costs of unemployed - paid to the avances the withdrawal the summer transfers .
the producers the the are retir?s the the program CSRN will the , reinstate , both years , the three as the motion of the present .
in the Canadian . changes , the border the the ACRA the cash in the 380 million . $ the somewhat 19 $ producers .
the most , a little more of reservations 500 producers have him 304 million . $ the people accountability CSRN .
these changes indicate , the commitment to the government . the Canada , to the Canadian Jewish and the environment , concevant the the program , helping the producers the in the the most needed , and his political the intention of the Canadian and improvements to the resulting the the the the most of the Canadian farmers Canadian can expect meaningful the the assistance available .
the Senate . the Senate
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , with the rectification that I am to the the Hansard , it is that the the bill to the not be not in both places in the time .
it is also say that the reports the the two committees will appreciate the the Senate .
the honourable senators will be vigilant and ensure the the the , if a committee . the prior to other , the the motion put the study of the prior to the study of the two reports that name to the Order of the Order , it be said petition .
the senator Kinsella :
the agreement .
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , the Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate may , he I say , we have that a precedent ?
is the the the that the motion , the undertaking ?
the senator Hays :
i thank the senator Corbin , his question .
i am the us starts indeed , the point of creating a new previous .
i think it is our expert the Canadian Rules I would throw the existence of a monopoly previous .
but they not in the way . .
i , land that this predatory is new .
the senator Corbin :
honourable senators , I believe that the one of the committee , some aspects of the bill to the .
this committee is restricted to present a report , but it , not be not looked before the the bill to the not be referred to the other Committee , the will the Hon. turn the report , and the two reports will represent the same time .
you , you , indicate how the bill to the will go to a committee to the other , or the the in chargera , if the not . not the country through ?
the senator Kinsella :
the Clerk , in chargera .
the senator Hays :
the senator noted that the bill to the not be the same that the one only place to the time .
he not . , the " the Senate .
we , we ended the the committee , the Banking , education . we in the report .
i have expressed , and we in the subject yesterday , the the bill to the will then referred to the committee , the business foreign .
he not be a not researched the most of a place to the time .
he has been the subject to the committee , the Banking .
when the committee , will get , the committee , the business foreign the in hoping .
the chairman of the committee souhaitera the - be the table the same time that the report of the committee , the business foreign .
i think that this way of properly Mifflin .
if no attempt to the beginning to debate on the report before the the other . we be referred , I do see no how this way of properly the be ineligible petition .
i hope that this point of the senator .
the senator Corbin :
honourable senators , he is here . the one previous the the have a cancer the the functioning future of the Senate .
a time that a precedent . established , the underlying the the authority to repeat the Orders .
the would the the not more than the the Prime Committee on the study of the Canadian law , in the report , the Senate , the inscrirait , a second , to Committee of the bill to the " the other Committee ?
he I would be the would the way solutions the way in the circumstances .
the , the bill to the not be not . This the in waiting for the .
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , I draw the the Honourable Senator that the previous there have the
we do the setting not today , the fact , the we have yesterday .
today , the us concerted only the the the summer . .
if someone a means the authority , the motion . , but , the my understanding with the Opposition Deputy of the Opposition , I do appreciate that the , to the government . the , the clarify the fact the Canadian and the to the the amendments that the fine in the bleus the honourable the summer has the all , the the place . the spark the invisible in the Debates of the Senate . the 24 November , the people were equal as the usual .
the senator Corbin :
honourable senators , I respecterai the decision of the Senate , but I wish simply the make a straight in spite the " that he not be not taking the one such a the way , influences .
we should hit carefully the Orders .
he I would be , the the previous to observe in the case , the Prime Committee should look the bill to the , in the report , then the Senate reopened a place motion of Reference of the bill to the " the second Committee , the in harm report , then the two reports similarly , the time , the Canadian a debate .
i do none not a the way , we have decided to make .
the senator Hays :
i accept the criticism , honourable senators , if the motion . the the the the is the
i can assure the the honourable that I am the the future . prudent to the the motion of dollars of new ways of the letter of the bills of the " the committee .
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , the Leader Deputy of the government has tried to clarify the situation that the - afternoon , but , in telecommunication , the senator Corbin , stocks that we have now a problem , because it was the motion of the the Rules and to the report upon the the will be .
he not be not wait that the other Committee that the Hon. the .
i commend the the committee , the report upon the one - the will be , but that we await the review the report that the other Committee that this , bill to the .
we respecterions , the Rules .
i add , however , the the motion . a very dangerous precedent .
the senator Hays :
i the said , honourable senators , I accept this criticism .
the senator Carstairs :
this is the not a critical .
on business orders
bill to the Canadian and the effect of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
second reading of Second the the debate
the honourable senators , I say that the first , I am delighted to take the honourable the comments of the bill to the C - 4 , the existing the participation of the Canada , the potential of the great bill scientific and technologique that is the creation of the Station spatiale international .
i draw the way that is the Canadian law . the Iraqi no controversy the the other place .
let - I , let . the first , words exaltantes that the answer to father of the program spatial Canadian , John H . Chapman :
the the years of the second century of the Confederation , the are the links tiss?s in the space the maintiendront the place . fabric of the corporation Canadian . as the path of strings and the t?l?graphe the soud? the provinces Diaspora the the years of the century the .
Mr. . Chapman the then stood :
the progress technological arising the the exploration spatiale the r?percutent in the activities normal the country , the
honourable senators , the bill to the C - 4 treating the the exploration spatiale in the public . all the Canadian and the the betterment .
the bill to the C - 4 allows the the Canada . Marchand a partner to the full in the most of business , the construction and the seaway the Canadian Station spatiale international .
he officialise our involvement in the the nation .
our investment in the the bills of science and the technology spatiales such as the Station spatiale international , which the the scientific , engineers and entrepreneurs Canadian roles a position significantly the the market international .
it allows the country , the intention to help to the newly scientific and the country understanding of the Universe . world .
the Station spatiale international is a symbol of cooperation international and the the effort concert? the the great preference industrial the the world include which laid the Canada . as the largest key .
in his firm clear , the publisher couvrira a mass equal to a ground of football and logera a team permanent international the seven members of the the astronautes Canadian sp?cialis?s in the areas of the biotechnologie , the the art , the the point of the Newfoundland and the the Telecommunications .
honourable senators , the extent legislation which we are before the Act , 36 the the obligations of the Canada , the CHST the the Agreement on the cooperation respecting the Canadian Station spatiale international civil and the the application of the provisions of the Code offence Canadian , the Canadian , ship the Canadian Record .
the parties to the agreement . engage the establishing a part of cooperation international of the in the Canadian the philosophy detailed , the the development , the the seaway and the the use , the Canadian and for peaceful , the one Record international civil .
the bill to the " the study calling the legislation Canadian , usefulness with the obligations international n?goci?es in the part of the agreement and , the advent , reaffirmed the hard resolution of the Canada . to the the bill . the person , historic .
the history of the participation of the Canada , the bill to Station spatiale international situation . the year , the Prime astronaut Canadian , singers Garneau , the travelling in the space .
in 1984 , the chairman Reagan the guest of the friends and the the snowy the the guys the the United - United the view of the construction , the the seaway and the the use of a founder spatiale the orbite around the Canadian Newfoundland , and the , the Canadian and for peaceful .
in March 1985 , the Canada accepta the invitation and avisa the NASA that the contribution of the Canada would maintain the the concept of a system of repair Bethune .
this system . is not the least , the generation next , the darkest spatial Canadian , the help to borrow the publisher spatiale and the the relationship a time that it will the orbite .
in 1988 , the Canada , the United - United , the European and the Japan ?tablirent record a partnership in encouraging a wide the Canadian Record spatiale .
this document states the great principles and the touchstone legal the Canadian cooperation respecting the the program of a founder spatiale .
after the strengthens the Canadian Record spatiale the 1993 , the partners have finally invited the Russian the the privilege to the the hard become a founder spatiale is international .
the 8 April 1997 , the Canadian a conference of deferred with the chairman Clinton , the Prime Minister of the Canada has r?affirm? the participation of the Canada , the program international the publisher spatiale and announced that the Canada disadvantaged the parenting agile specially .
this t?l?robot , known the the name of varying consul , is designed to operate with a new gave parenting and strong the the operations of patchwork and the the repair specialized .
after three years of negotiations , all the parties have signed the new agreed intergouvernemental the Canadian Record spatialele 29 January 1998 , the record a participant the Canadian Federation .
this agreement for a period of two years , his ratification , the right to the make the 29 January of the year 2000 .
the bill C C - 4 allows the the Canada . ratify this agreement international and the approval record our commitment to the respect to the partnership .
in the discussions international , he is still the Canadian and many achievements of the Canada in the area spatial , including the the Canadarm .
this , is the important , the success of the Canadarm the wonderful to the Canada , merely be to the aventurer , the way and illustrious the new development in the consul spatiale the forefront , said , the confidence the the country , the one of spatial .
he assure the the worlds scientific the the Canada . access leading to the conditions of microgravit? the the space and creates the new benefits technological to the country . world .
today , the the Canada recueille the benefits of the participation in the bill , under the aviation to the industry spatiale Canadian and the words of comforting , the prestige the part of the one of the most significant prouesses the the history in the area of the Wall .
the Canada . never to a performance equal to three or four times the value of the investment price and the Canadian Airborne the many jobs in the area of the technology the forefront .
the participation of the Canada , the construction of the publisher spatiale the d?marr? the Canadian whom auspices .
in December last , we have attended the Canadian and the place . the darkest spatial and the the system of vision artificielle Canadian , the purpose of the montage the the two premiers modules the Canadian Record , the module American the Unity the and the module Russian the Zarya the .
in May the , the motion with great pride that we have seen her Julie Payette become the first belief the gains the ship the the two premiers modules the Canadian Record .
the year next , Mr. Dion Garneau simultaneously his third mission , as the member of the crew of the STS - 97 .
this mission will empower alluded to the initial the the automotive solaires the Canadian Station spatiale international and comportera two intense in the space Mr. Garneau coordonnera .
Apr?sM. Vigneault Garneau , Mr. Chris Hadfield simultaneously his second mission .
with all our fellow , we assisterons the Canadian first exit the one Canadian in the space the Canadian Human Mr. Hadfield , the will the mission of settling the new gave consul the the Canada , the Station spatiale international .
managed this shift in the , the Canada and all the other countries , the world e with joy and pride how sanctions the darkest spatial Canadian and the new gave consul the purposes the Canadian embassy the Canadian , the structure spatiale and the the most of laboratory the microgravit? have them .
as the the system of repair Bethune will Sea , through the the initial the Canadian labour consul the the adjunct the the darkest spatial , the astronautes will discharge the orbite the the tasks complex the full effectiveness and the entire security , from the the comfort Covenant of the modules the Canadian Record spatiale .
in the other words , if the technology consul Canadian . was not existed , this Record not have been a pasta or entretenue with the effectiveness and the altar highway .
in March , the government . the Canada has transpired the the Agency spatiale Canadian a financing stable and standing the the CHST the the program spatial the the Canada .
this decision testimony of the commitment firm of the government to the respect to the promotion of the Science and the the People the forefront the reasons , support the economy World based on the knowledge and the Canadian to stay the the prior to warnings in the area .
our investment in the technology spatiale the day in the right over the our commitments to the Canadian protection of the Environment , such as set in the Kyoto the Montreal and the agreements of Kyoto .
the Canada is the video the RADARSAT , the front spoke the the fishing the country , the other the first place to the world to the the motion of the management of the Newfoundland , from the the space .
today , the us produced RADARSAT to monitor the floods , as the the case of the floods of the River Cross the the Manitoba , for support the operations of the Canadian and disasters , as the Kobe , the the Japan , and the best to understand the effects of the war on the effect local and their environmental , as the the case of the Vietnam .
our investment in the area spatial we need to do preliminary the d?couvertes scientific .
the " and experience cooperation by the scientific global the the space among which the Canadian . recognized for their role bacterial , we told more on the Universe , the the effects of the sun the Canadian Newfoundland and the Canadian the Canadian operating the conditions of microgravit? collegial , the the us to the information of the information elevating the the system extreme - installation , the physical , the cerveau and the effects of the peculiarities the the board human .
the experience Canadian in the area of the Science spatiales the penchent , by the , the the problems of health , the Breast and the disease of the physical as the osteoporosis , a medical the end , the one million . Canadians .
our investment , 1999 the innovation , the the Canadian and benefits in our daily .
the our attendance , we do seem not know that , each time that we allumons the t?l?viseur , ?coutons the Estimates , the time , Stanley visit to the doctor , allumons our offences portable , take our telephone the voiture or enfilons our shoes the leadership , absorbent the chocs , we used to the events and services , the b?n?fici? the Canadian research spatiale .
our investment seeks , the industry spatiale , the accountants the the thousands of Canadians and the Canadian and income of the de1,4 billion . $ , the 45 per feel the the export , the the motion of large the most high among the country , the one industry spatiale .
the " the strategy industrial the the Canada , the the fact , the consul spatiale and the the discontinuance a pre strategic , our industry . happened to the People innovative the people . Gallery in the world world .
the other countries export of the plan are called the the expertise of the Canada for the Canadian and contribution to the publisher spatiale a reality .
EMS Technologies , the Ottawa , the recent generated a market . 6.4 million . $ 8,700 Mitsubishi , the the Japan , for specific the critical Ministerial the Canadian contribution economy , the Station spatiale international .
the other commandes be bringing the value total of the market . 24 million . $ .
the - that the , our commitment to the respect to a private spatial dynamic is a commitment to our young , our future scientific , engineers and astronautes .
in turn of the , I say that the Station spatiale international help to do preliminary the Telecommunications , the Science and the innovation , the point of the Newfoundland and the exploration spatiale .
the Kyoto the the bill C C - 4 is a step important in the the motion of commitment international sustainable and beneficial the the Canada .
the bill to the , the existing the participation Canadian , this business career , is a not the us franchissons with confidence , the the time when the Canada and the betterment the appr?tent the make a leap the g?ant .
( the Canadian motion of the senator DeWare , the the name of the senator Kelly , the debate is adjourned . )
the speech , the Throne
the Adresse the answer to Motion Republic of the the debate on eighteenth on the Chair of Debate the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Hays , seconded by the Honourable Senator Jeffrey :
that the deliberations to the Order of the Order of the Honourable the the debate on the motion Honourable the the adoption of a Adresse the answer to the speech , the Throne , rendered by His Excellency the Gouverneure general the the two Houses of the Parliament , the completion the eighth on the Chair the the Order will have debated ;
the Act , would the amendment of the Honourable Senator Kinsella , seconded by the Honourable Senator DeWare , the Canadian motion . the not now adopted , the it be amended in paragraph the word " eighteenth the and the the replacement by the word " fourteenth the .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I wish you wish to the I suggested , as many leaders assistants the the government . the two party to me , the the intervention , on the the speech , the Throne the completion the eighth on the Chair the the Order will have debated .
otherwise , the the deliberations would completed , eight days of the .
the main suspended the the senator Kinsella is that this motion misconduct unduly the number of senators given to speak on this motion .
in the , he is went up to say that this could be identified .
i am see that the the requirement of whom the the onus the reasons of this motion .
honourable senators , we have had five days of Coverage , with the average , the the intervention of three senators , at the the the fact , total of 15 senators , the way of Senator , nine the the Opposition and six served .
the the us not hurt not subject by the rule 85 , he is nevertheless interesting the reverse that the rule 50 ( 1 ) the the Rules and the House of the House states : "
the deliberations on the Order of the Order of resuming the the debate on the motion of Adresse the answer to the speech , the Throne and the all the amendments , proposed . the not 2003 six days of the .
honourable senators , the motion of days of the the the the I move the question motion .
the course , the other place . the the rules similar the , by the , the debate budget .
how explain this rule of the other place , and why this motion would the it is tradition here ?
it is occurring , the my argument , by the fact that the answer to the speech , the Throne the ever been for the honourable senator to the deal virtually not any what about the and the not only , as the the left to the senator Kinselladans the intervention , the plan of action proposed by legouvernement - the the the Senate desirable .
in the other words , a senator can ask the other the honourable to deal of the important what the , the the the chamber . in the summer Scientology the the pre , and the reason they could add answer .
he is that the the Senate . the to do this kind of speech and the motion of the Canadian motion of the opinion of inquiry .
after a hat the one day , that the the two , the the speech . speech .
honourable senators , is the way appropriate to raise the the issues in this chamber .
no . we being of properly and the
the notice of a day . required to a good reason .
if the speech , the Throne , name to the Order of unemployed long , the risk of using this section of the Order of the Order of the other purposes that the purpose down .
the senator Kinsella concluded , in the criteria the numbers , the the time Allocation the the debate on the speech , the Throne not . not enough .
i do I do I moquer the the , but the Canadian page doubling of the Debates of the Senate , he concluded :
the the pace of two hours by the , " ... ... that would a total of 16 at the
the the scenario , seulement32 senators could speak , the right to the Canadian the point of the Canadian the government , the great bill overall the Canadian session .
the Canadian the third of the members of the Senate might then to the the debate -
honourable senators , let - I , correcting the numbers of the senator Kinsella .
if a senator can speak pendant15 minutes and if we can spend two hours by the " the discussion , then eight senators could each day to the the Adresse the Governor General .
the result , if we autorisions 16 at the debate , eight days fallen by two hours by the - 64 senators could take the honourable , the two , the the the number carried by the senator Kinsella and about the two third of the honourable the this chamber .
the not be not say that is that unreasonable .
the the opportunity to the senator Kinsella , the two hours by the years until days , this proposal offers ?112 senators , to the honourable .
the my opinion , the motion . , the Canadian time that the debate . in the .
the senator Carstairs :
this is the Canadian senators , he is the the " the total !
the senator Hays :
in the , since 1967 , the number of the honourable , he and the speech , the Throne the figure . exactly the 20,73 .
the result , the important to the Canadian neat , the motion redistribute that all the honourable the the wish will order to the the debate .
the most , and that int?ressera my colleagues , the other side , the primacy seem committee , the Canadian 8 days and nonde p.m. .
the comment 271.1 the precincts questions : "
after the the government has suggested and seconded the motion of Adresse the answer to the speech , the Throne , the House body of Physicians days of the " the maximum to picture the debate on the motion .
honourable senators , the motion exactly the same comment mentioned in the rules in the other place .
in our House , honourable senators , the was the use client by many , there was the my predecessor , the Honourable Senator Graham .
the 2,500 October 1986 , the Conservative , by the through the the senator Doody , the fact approve a motion identical by the Senate .
i , the new , the 13 December 1988 , the honourable the the their approval to again again , this motion of the summer accepted the the unanimous when it has been introduced by the senator Frith , in 1983 .
in summary , honourable senators , the amendment . is not fit to my opinion , not so because the the calculus are erron?s , but especially because the the will the the supreme the all the primacy and because the the surrounding unnecessarily the debate on a subject , then , the time Allocation enough ample .
the numbers are sufficient ?loquents .
( the Canadian motion of the senator DeWare , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act , the Parliament of the Canada
bill to the Second - Second Reading - Adjourned the the debate
the Honourable Senator Grafstein ) .
the paradoxes , the link beyond the the parlance and the perceived , the ?merg? as the capstone of one of the history .
the sense , the Locke the Bosanquet , the single the parlance the the advisory .
the logiciens not have a not able to understand the spirit po?tique .
as the poetry the it ?merg? indemne the the long - and unwelcome , envelopp?e the mystery of history and science , and maintaining and truth , as the most tradition annonciatrice the Canadian literature and the Canadian Industrial .
the great vision Owen Barfield the one day wrote : " - point of touch the most obvious of the meaning and the poetry is the paradoxes . "
the paradoxes , demanded Shelley , the d?limit? the area flou of the words and the perceived .
the parlance was the poetry before the prose .
the the motion , the fact raged the debate on the the Olympics the poetry and the history .
the history . - it truth , or the truth . indicates the best in the recount or the aust?rit? the Canadian poetry ?
bluntly deep the " era common , the country cybermonde , the the books , the claviers the classroom .
the pure quick of the media coverage , the will now up exceeded by Internet , the forced some pseudo - criticism the support , for industrial a false clameur , the the age of the literature , and therefore , age of the poetry and the Canadian prose , one of the end .
the guiding Mark Twain , the announcement of the death of the literature is not premature .
the person support with the Canadian practice that the the age hamstrung , the importance of the literature , the emphasis of the poetry , integrated now , the important that before the one from civil .
the poetry contains the history popular and the memory popular as the history only to the success , the make .
how we took the us to deal historic ?
the the years of the period unto the David , he is the the psaumes .
in the Oklahoma the the P?loponn?se , he is the the Iliade .
in the first era Christian , he is the the Sermon the Canadian montagne .
in the Prime Commonwealth British , he is the Canadian reality poetry the Milton .
the First World War , the motion illustr?e in the disclaimer the us around the not . - it is ?voqu?e the Wall in the Editor At sought the honour ?
the the arrival of the Europeans the the Canada , the mythes po?tiques the the Aboriginal Peoples abondaient in our country .
the Jacques Cartier was poet .
as the the the accost? the Canadian land , the appellerait the Canada , our country . become rich the po?tes and the poetry .
the Canadian 1 500 po?tes the summer published in the Canada .
we have had the pleasure , located the the Senate . late Jean LeMoyne , the us . the visit the so that poet the 1930 .
the " said that the Canada , the most of the Canadian po?tes published by subpoena in the world .
all the country , one and grandchildren , who , regain the life of the the words of their po?tes .
we have a nice pl?iade m?connue the po?tes : the Atwood the Callahan , the Klein and the LATE , the response to Pratt , the Birney and the Scott .
Louis Riel was a poet the the Depression the summer published .
in French , the LaPointe the Miron , the Legault , the Henault and the Roy , a rich treasury the poetry and the imagination art continue to define .
the Canadian offered the the next millennium , honourable senators , not appropriate , he not the red?finir the role of the Milton the the Canada ?
since the cardinals century , the Milton official of the Court . doing as a vital vital and Jake the Canadian life of the Anglais .
the Canadian reseller the the years at the Canadian Library of Congress , the Washington , the monarchy the idea and the motion associated a " poet - board to the
with this simple the , we could celebrate the art of the po?tes and gathering the po?tes , the Parliament and the people in a great harmony art .
the approach meeting in the bill to the motion a and effective in terms of cost :
the Speaker of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of the House , unnecessary the police , choosing the Milton official of the Parliament , from the one list confidentielle the three names Before by a committee chaired by the biblioth?caire Parliamentary and included the same the the publisher General of the Library national , the the archiviste national the the Canada , the the commissioner to the Official Languages the the Canada and the the chairman of the Council of the Council of the Canada .
the part of the Milton official are minimalistes , and the motion wanted .
the the years of the mandate of two years , the Milton official of the Parliament :
the motion cheques the the 9uvres the poetry , including the the purpose of the renovations official of the Parliament ;
b ) submission the the committee , reading of poetry ;
c ) describes the biblioth?caire Parliamentary the Canadian denominator the Canadian Library and the tip own , involved the - the in the area of the culture ;
e ) provides the the part related to the request of the chairs or the the biblioth?caire Parliamentary .
honourable senators , the part down in the bill to the the wish to complex and the exigeantes .
no . should prevent the Milton the write the Canadian poetry .
honourable senators , I would recommend the well to the pioneers bill to the .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . )
the Union monetary European
the report of the committee , the business foreign - Consideration of the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I do take the Canadian speak to speak to the report , but to ask the the Senate . leave of taking my name to the Canadian the senator Stewart , the the the one - the motion now , the retirement .
i think that the debate should be recorded the the name of a senator , the .
the Honourable P . Derek Lewis ( His Honour the Speaker Acting Deputy :
is the the Canadian agreed , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the debate is stands the the name of the senator Hays . )
business Social , Science and Technology
leave to the committee , to the facts new the the Euthanasia and the suicide attended
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Carstairs , seconded by the Honourable Senator Jeffrey :
that the Committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , though the review the in the report of facts new disasters been the tabling , in June 1995 , the the report final the the Committee on Special the the Euthanasia and the assistance to the suicide entitled :
the Canadian life and the Canadian death .
the particular , the the Committee be authorized to examine :
the extent in the people were fishing in the the recommendations unanimous revitalizing in the report ;
2 . - established to the Canada . the various issues candidates in the report ;
3 . - established to the foreign the the various issues candidates in the report ;
that the Committee present its report final the the most final 6 June 2000 . - (
the Honourable Senator Kinsella ( .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , we , the the side - the , we are the agreements the debate on this issue of the time , this .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the situation . the aboriginal and their future
inquiry - Debate the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the inquiry of the Honourable Senator Gill , calling the attention of the Senate on the situation . the aboriginal to the us to the make the point and the thought the the government acted to the future . - (
the Honourable Senator Watt ) .
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I souhaiterais let this inquiry . the name of the senator Watt , but I wish to the the subject today , if it your mind .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
is the the Canadian agreed honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Carstairs :
honourable senators , each time that I allies in my province , the the Manitoba , I rise to Persian 59 the existence by Broken Head , a community aboriginal .
i what the one school called Sergeant Tommy Prince School .
the Saskatoon Tommy Prince the summer the military aboriginal the most affirms the the two flowery numerous .
he has served in the " the years of the World War World .
yet , when the Saskatoon Prince and tourist the the , for 15 years , he not the same vote in the part of the election federal or provincial .
i have always thought that the best to have taken by the very hon. John Diefenbaker , and the government , the summer of the " and aboriginal the the country . the Canadian vote , the election federal .
when I move the this school , I think the Canadian the Canadian and aboriginal .
in the , because the I have up to Halifax , I have had very little of contacts with the aboriginal .
i the Democratic time when they clandestine the city , the the spring , sell the the Rideau the May , the fleur embl?matique the Canadian province .
they frappaient time to the door and we are achetions , the the Rideau .
this was my nomination touch with the aboriginal in my province .
the aboriginal not alone . the part important to the people of the Nova Scotia Nova .
the fight , and contribution is certainly important .
however , when I have d?m?nag? the Alberta , 1965 , I am I illustrated in a class of daughters the leSt. Mary ' Girls High School , with the the young women of the the " Gang the the time , Scarcee Reserve , the was origins to the limit the Canadian city .
this was the only school of education high the it had the right to go .
these daughters were always guarding the the gap the all the other daughters the Canadian class .
they participaient rarely the the discussions the Canadian class and abandonnaient very quickly the students .
the little of the provinces 578 the 10e year , and I do I recall that the one only to the provinces , took the 11e year .
honourable senators , I wish to say that the situation . significantly changed since 1965 , but the truth is that it is the not a difference for the aboriginal the the country .
in the , when I enseignais the Winnipeg , 1981 , I am remind the one young man in the years of geography the 10e year , the motion lot and the said , the injurieuse the the the relaxed the the aboriginal .
he I was central totally stup?faite .
i am correct stand in the classroom , in the the professor , and ?coutais a star the 15 years . the other human , the the highest the Canadian province of the Manitoba , in d?bitant the the lies and the the things inaccurate that he not win the learned that the Canadian diplomat the the parents , the the chamber or the the highest .
after I have expanded the the seriousness price and the Belgian the make the the comments on some of the comments , I have found that he was to a unit of the years , the life of the aboriginal the the Canada and I am I and the the book .
i am not be ever came to go to the prejudice the the young man .
i was fascin?e by the fact that he not the not unborn the the Canada .
this was a 1915 .
he was out of the Canada , the age of two or three years .
the parents , educated , the ?duqu?s .
the father was professor of math?matiques ; his mother enseignait the Canadian Faculty of mediation hygienist .
this was the the people behave .
yet , the barking the one opinion so racist the our aboriginal that is the starting .
i suppose that the I do have not have the so vehemence when I have been convoqu?e the the school of my daughter Catherine when it was in 6e year .
the following the one wrong experience that it was perfectly the 5e year , we had decided to the message in a place school .
misery in a new environment , Cathi not said that a - something , the motion ? " - that the " the Order the the , the in a discussion in his class the the aboriginal .
the brilliant the fact , the comments negative .
new in this class , Cathi , the Canadian , pride of the mother , the immediate said that the brilliant not knew not , the event , was the .
it has reminded the fact that I was retourn?e the the post , his birth and that I had committed a Crie the the North the the Alberta as gouvernante .
this is Cathi knew the the aboriginal , it . was conditioned the Theresa .
the - the the one unequal . the the , the Canadian better in his community .
honourable senators , the following the summer elected to the Assembly legislation . the Manitoba , I am feat visit the school of the band The grew .
Oscar Lathlin , the was then Chief and the date Minister of the public . the government . the Manitoba , the transf?r? the brilliant the Canadian flag school of Kelsey the Globe grew to the people so that ?duqu?s in the school of the contingency .
he felt that they not shacks not in their school the experience cultural that they parallel live , the this school not win not answer to their needs and the independents that they operation the one , in their community .
Mr. . Lathlin I had delve the visit the school .
i must say that is that I will have seen was quite remarkable .
in 1965 , the brilliant the ennuyaient , but in this school aboriginal the " enseignait the homeland and the language aboriginal the most of the rest of the program school of the province , the brilliant were p?tillants and d?bordaient the enthusiasm .
this was remarkable .
the brilliant aboriginal the Canadian , won the majority of the price to the exposure scientific the the North the the Manitoba .
this was a grand remarkable .
honourable senators , I have seen the same phenomenon when I have visited the school For of Reference Earth the Winnipeg .
this is the - be to this is my am a if ardente partisan the the self government to the aboriginal .
i wish to the principle because the I am outset that the aboriginal not able to do the progress that they should be as the people . the administreront not themselves , the , and we have the responsibility of the in the the people parviennent the this independence government .
honourable senators , the motion of secret the polichinelle the the Senate , and I know that many of the honourable those , the business people - that he is the aged the Canadian people . the only the aboriginal in the institutions of post post .
certainly , the the progress the summer progress .
he is the date , the aboriginal the are doctors , lawyers and dentists .
we have the Canadian opportunity to rely among the , in this room , not least , five senators aboriginal the Whelans all of important contribution to our institution .
but it is sufficient .
the other relevant 18.7 that the Aboriginal Peoples risk of unemployment of injuries the most high the the Canada , as the Canadian birth , the the motion tragic , the home the young .
these death are account the Canadian and Safety , the Canadian and fire and the the the motion of worse tragedy of all of the Canadian and suicides , the young people extending the rate of suicide the most high the the young the the Canada .
the same , no - and you not to surprendra the reverse that , the the aboriginal , the diabetes is end?mique .
a doctor the same compar? this disease the Canadian small v?role or the Canadian rougeole , the us we made with us in the the immigrants earn the the continent and the people resulted the death of a number record of victims .
now , they milking prematurely the case of the diabetes instable .
we know that the diabetes the the control by a di?te .
the not affecte not enough to resources to the fight against the diabetes to the this disease . kills the the aboriginal the the Canada .
no - and you not to surprendra not more of the the the aboriginal the more the rate of unemployment the most high .
he not . not came to 90 per - and aboriginal violation to the work that the the unemployment .
he not . not came in the North the the Manitoba , the children compete the the speedily with the justice because the , frankly , these children Pages that he worth more live in the centre of tracking crimes the Winnipeg that the their own community aboriginal .
honourable senators , when the senator Gill the subject of the objectives and the the aspirations , I do I have I prevent the feeling that we behave all miss the the presence in the Senate .
we in behave all the the the us remember time , the the victims of the honourable Watt , Chalifoux and Adams , the issues , the the effects on the aboriginal .
the aboriginal the the right to be treated as the the citizens . the full of the country .
this is therefore , the the need to give the same opportunities that the all the other Canadians , benefit of care of health , the one education and the one government . E .
we look at the one some of the years . response shortfall the the report of the board Royal the the Aboriginal Peoples .
we do we not received the answer shortfall .
i pray each of the honourable the papers and the government to the power to the comprehensive the most efficiently possible . response shortfall .
honourable senators , the the years of the past weeks , I have followed with the Canadian visit the the House of the province of British - British in the part of their study and the their assessment of the treaty nisga' the .
the racism crunch the , the my opinion , is woefully , this in our society . is shaped .
the my great regret , he is acquiescence by a party politics . I consider d?tritivore .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the senator Carstairs :
i give the my colleagues aboriginal the assurance that I have felt and that I have encourage in the passage of their struggle to the make the the members of their people of enemies citizens Canadian .
the senator Kinsella :
the the Hon. the
hear !
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , the speech , the senator Carstairs , ambitious .
he is the the us starts in the Canadian youths the most great problems for the future .
i am sensitive to the question on the the the motion withdrawn .
a place something I agace in the speech , the senator Carstairs .
the report of the commission Royal wended the the comments probantes the the Late the children , the problems r?voltants in the area of the education and the problems of order mentally and tranquil quasi sterilize the problem .
why the government . the the not yet responded with existing the the problems ?
is the the only a question of money or is the the , the other things ?
the senator Carstairs :
senator Grafstein , I do think that the the Senate only a question of money .
i believe that he is the that a lack of political partisanship .
this lack of political partisanship will perdurer because the the not there has not enough to Canadians , aboriginal the all the socio the the are montr?s loans to defend the case of our aboriginal Peoples .
the senator Grafstein :
the Honourable Senator Chalifoux is here .
it and I shall we are barons the the matter of the fault - free of Toronto .
it has sought , actively that I , persuading the government . the deal to the problem of the fault - free .
we are enchant?s that the fact responsible for the Canadian coordinator this area .
it has made a wonderful work in the the country .
the most , we hope , in the sillage the the speech , the Throne , the editorials the cabinet the act quickly and Teleglobe .
such are our expectations .
it , the , in looking the matter of the fault - free of Toronto , I am I heurt? the one very counts problem .
in order to the Constitution of the Canada - I do know that if the motion of the Red or 92 - the the motion of the government that matters the Indian and the land Indian .
however , I have been surprised the plight that , notwithstanding the Constitution , the departments . assumaient not their obligations Constitutional the the respect to the Indian the living in the foreign the the reserves .
the the the serious problem which we are facing the Toronto , that the one of majority of the fault - free are the the aboriginal the living out of the reserves , the the foreign the the land Indian .
however , the government . the circumstances responded to the this gap in the the concerns of accountability the by the Constitution .
while the the motion responsible ?
i ask the the senator , the just the make a very wise speech , if it has explor? this gap in the Canadian Tobacco and if we , the this chamber , we do something that the Competition the this irresponsabilit? constitutional .
the senator Carstairs :
honourable senators , I wish to the the Honourable Senator that is up constitutional not to the vow that the the case of the fault - free , but that I am I battue in my recollection to a question similar to the the care of health to the children aboriginal .
when a child is nice the one community aboriginal and transf?r? in a service to children of a centre of the Science and the health , all the care easier the this child are the Canadian Radio the the government , because the the the is the one parent alive in a community aboriginal the provincial , the Canadian Tobacco federal .
however , for the the reasons that I do understand that , the province of the Manitoba , is responsible for the services of care , older .
the following the one dispute the federal and the Minister provincial and the health and the counterpart federal , these children aboriginal remain often to the hospital because the , a time that they expanding in their community , no service of care . the motion assured .
the taxpayers Canadian pay . the to the the children are soign?s the the hospital .
this , is the important , these children are planners the their family and the their community and not have not maximiser their survival of gu?rison the Chair the Canadian and ones who are unhappy and the in roles the best .
i would be giving the one solution to propose to the senator .
the the the I can the " is that we must be very the other debate as the US by the senator Gill , in hoping that the other place . there is the
the Honourable Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , this exchange and the association Finance . the senator Carstairs , the fact think the the bill to the C - 31 , the I have had the d?plaisir the shepherding the Canadian House of the House of the beginning of the years 1980 .
the the time , we populace the question of the rights of the women filtered the Okanagan .
the Canadian reseller , he is a the end of the one aberration by the one aboriginal the notes for woman a non - aboriginal could convey to his children and the learning to his birth and other rights of the looking the improvement , then , if the sister of this man just the marry a non - aboriginal , it weakening all its human tribal , all its human the Canadian land and that the right to live in the contingency .
it is looking not contemplated the Hon. heritage ancestral the the mother the second , the third generation .
this bill to the " to the the women of home the the land r?serv?es the the aboriginal , and territory ancestral , and the lives of all the rights and Orders guaranteed the people named , uncles and fathers .
unfortunately , he not there has not been expected enough to the to fund the construction of fate or the schools to allow the the children and the the families in this situation . the integrate fully in their companies respective .
he is unfortunate that we do we not fit the kind of Accessibility the biological answer to the needs of these families , the Canadian housing or give the the schools to receive these children , the the the appropriateness the one dysfonctionnement social the the place . facilitate the life of these women and the their family .
her the senator could the it is making a way whatever the us follow the us , the the Senate , and the our colleagues aboriginal the exercise a certain pressure on the other place , for upholding the commitments , constitutional or not , the future of the values fundamental in the corporation Canadian to the us can all the University of a single people ?
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , the period meeting for the debate is completed .
you pleasure , he and the banquet to allow the Deputy the senator Carstairs , will ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Carstairs :
honourable senators , the senator Finestone the specific asked the the country , could be .
i believe that we have two criteria .
the Canadian first , we can be used to the committee on the Canadian and aboriginal Peoples .
this is the committee , is responsible for the , and the the committee . such a question .
however , he does time that he be necessary to pull a little our committees .
i believe that is that the committee appr?cierait , as the and the vice the case , the past , the would the tabling of a motion to the Senate rightfully our commitment to see the committee , the Aboriginal Peoples both the charge of the
the senator Finestone :
that this motion be taken .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Carstairs , the debate is adjourned . )
business legal and Constitutional
leave to the committee , clerical the the services
the Honourable Lorna Milne , pursuant to the opinion march November 99 , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the technical , clerical and services of counsel , clerical , clerical the board or other elements necessary to examine the the bills of the , the substance of the Canadian law and the Estimates budget , he have been d?f?r?es .
( the motion is agreed . )
leave to the committee to broadcast the deliberations , the media of information electronic
the Honourable Lorna Milne , pursuant to the opinion march November 99 , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the power to allow the premature the the deliberations public by the media of information electronic , the manner in bother the least possible . the .
( the motion is agreed . )
business Social , Science and Technology
leave to the committee , sitting , the time that the Senate
the Honourable Marjory LeBreton , the the name of the senator Kirby , pursuant to the opinion of the 24 November 99 , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , though the Senate for the committee , the Senate . the Monday 29 November , the the traditional 30 November and the the 1998 1 December 1998 , and that the application of the rule 95 ( 4 ) the the Rules the sitting , this regard .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , the motion of the motion introduced help a little of the average , the meaning that no time . is tenth .
i understand that Tuesday approach and that we do we not the opportunity to examine the question before the but I wish to the least the " what the the committee wishes to meet .
i ask the question because the the use would be the committee sitting , a time thereafter , the so , the Queen , the the time , that the
the motion . " no , the subject .
the senator LeBreton :
the Monday , the not . not a problem .
Monday , we si?gerons the 13 at the
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate . adjourned . the traditional 30 November 99 , the 14 at the motion
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 13
the traditional 30 November 99
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the dumping
Maxwell Tabled '
the rights of the man
the wind go
the Ste Montfort the Ottawa
business routine
business Social , Science and Technology
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
the Act , the border judicial
bill to the Second - Report of the committee
the adjournment
library of the Parliament
notice of Motion During the committee Joint Committee on sit in the time that the Senate
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
the Organization for the safety and the cooperation in Europe , The eighteenth session Annual the the Assembly Parliamentary Conference , St. - P?tersbourg , in Russia , p the the report of lad?l?gation Canadian
the Organization for the safety and the cooperation in Europe , The eighteenth session Annual the the Assembly Parliamentary Conference , St. - P?tersbourg , in Russia , Notice of inquiry
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Transportation
mine , the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian
the Supreme the the operations of Inter - Canadian - Government Position of a review by the committee , the Transportation and the the communication
the Supreme the the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - Government Position of a balancing government
the business Intergovernmental
the Quebec - Effect conditions force of a referendum - Conformity role of the Senate
the Transportation
the Supreme the the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - Government Response of the government
the Supreme the the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - Conformity the Act , small communities
the Heritage
the possibility of a reason in the construction of the new Museum of the war
the funding of the new Museum of the war
election Canada
the Manitoba - Government loss of information places
the transfer of the data personal - Conformity principle of the consent
the Manitoba - Government loss of information places - Effect procedures of security the the data personal
the fishery and the Oceans
the provinces Maritimes - Government to the Canadian Court Supreme confirmant the rights of Fisheries and the aboriginal - Effect the consolidation the the Upholder the fishing to the aboriginal
answers delayed the Canadian and the control
the Solicitor General
the Biohazard Canadian of the security of security , The loss of documents classifi?s - Conformity the Canadian the committee , training the the activities of the security of security
the trade internationally
the Agreement - free - free North - American - Conformity civil magazine by a society Processors , adjustments the Canadian Grain the one contract the Upholder the water , vrac - Government Position of the government
the ORDRE business orders
the speech , the Throne
motion of my the answer to Continued the the debate
privileges , Standing and Orders
the Canadian the second report of the committee
third report of the committee , Stands the the debate
the Senate
the traditional 30 November 99
the Chair . Chair . p.m. at the the Speaker , the the Chair .
prayers .
the rights of the man
the wind go
the Honourable Calvin Woodrow Ruck :
the the beginning of the war , a great many of RCMP the Canadian Mounted the , it is , although the troquer the wear the Canadian police 72 , the Canadian and Service Men .
they will have engaged in the army the land , the navy and the army the the air .
the independents the Canadian Mounted Police the the Canada . the street significantly d?garnis .
the officer of the RCMP responsible for the d?tachement the Sydney the past . informed the the twilight local to hire the the young physiquement violation in the independents the the body of police .
these two young black were the the number of those who souhaitaient the enr?ler .
the officer in the " Sydney not known not what do the the two young black .
the the time , no Noir not had never joined the independents the Canadian Mounted - the the least not to the Cape - Cape .
this Officer the motion of the report with the neighbourhood General of the Division H . Halifax to ask the the instructions the Canadian the Canadian deal of the vow by the two young black .
the members of the d?tachement the Halifax , not knowing not too , but the the the the monopoly the make , the are the their turn the in the with the neighbourhood General in our great capital federal , Ottawa .
i do I remind the the people . the qualified or not .
the motion ? the the United the one or the other . the ever . the Canadian the RCMP .
the Canadian , the Canadian rumour the motion widespread the reason the RCMP Rouyn the the public . the community black .
the other people have wanted to their Security , but they not have not have the opportunity to the .
the officer responsible to Ottawa . advised the minister to Halifax the lurch these candidates the present the the examination , adding the people . the pictures the - be not .
he seems it is the not the right . We because the United the one or the other . the two men not the ever brought the tunique Red .
this is a good indication of the the the 1950 the the time .
the change . is underway in Nova Scotia Nova and , I believe , the " the Canada .
he is the date , a number of Black in the independents the Canadian Mounted and I believe that the people are the the good work .
they will seize the people who , and the , the the name of the justice and the the equity for all .
we see the changes to produce and the motion . encouraging to the members of our community .
our young woman can now aspire to the many items to which , for the the years , the infection that they not r?unissaient not the qualities intensive .
the that the difference .
it is the our young woman and women have the Canadian and education academic , the entire their school in the and the then open a practice of lawyers .
w ( 1410 )
the Ombudsman the Canadian Nova Scotia Nova is a young Noir and the the very that is the my husband , Douglas Ruck .
the question , the the the summer the Prime Noir the Canadian Nova Scotia Nova the receiving a monopoly honour .
he is time here , the Ottawa , for the Canadian the tortuous the jobs a body national the the kind .
he has gone travelled .
the wind of the change blowing the Canadian Nova Scotia Nova the the the concerns of eligibility and the high the repository .
the person to the work enrolled that the resources necessary to provide the country clause and outside the us starts applying as the other .
this is the the way to what the
he is the Canadian great improvements .
it is the our young , 54 and alcohol , will the the university and constituents by strive the good job .
is the biggest the us in this .
we continue to advise the the young the not . whose their education , the the tutorial and the help to the development of their province and the their country .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the Ste Montfort the Ottawa
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , the day , the 29 November 99 is a date , reforming in the history of the Canada .
three judges of the Court divisionnaire the the Ontario , the one ' unanimous in favour of the peace - the Ste Montfort .
these judges the foetus that the board of restructuring of the services of health of the government . the Ontario had acted smuggled the d?cr?tant the closure of this hospital , the only hospital university speaking in Ontario .
the Canadian French - the Ontario , rejoice the this decision , but remain anxieux the " the reaction of the government 500,000 , the the motion settled the chamber , Lionel the Canadian Wheat the restructuring in mentionnant that is the " it to deal . matter .
this same commission . is toward , yesterday , the answer to the only 790 was the Constitution the services of health , Ontario .
we are in a situation that the difficult .
the question , the problem is the knowledge , will the courage and the integrity to the " and actions .
the courts have tranch? , the motion to the turn of the government . " .
finally , I thank the the TAGS the the heart all the stakeholders the people money time and money to the the French - the Ontario so , to Her .
the senator Prud ' s
hear !
the Honourable Marie - P .
honourable senators , as the said , the the senator Gauthier , November 99 happens in the history of the Canada as a time historic .
yesterday , the Court divisionaire the the Ontario , the fight the case , the Ste Montfort .
the courts . stated that the decision of the board of restructuring of the services of health of the Ontario , reducing the services to the Ste Montfort bafouait the principle , the protection and the respect to the rights of the minority , principle defended by the Constitution Canadian .
the courts . " cancelled the ball the Canadian Wheat .
this morning , the daily - gers wrote that she Gis?le Lalonde , Chair of SOS Monfort , school the judgment of the most of victory have acquired by the Francophonie commissions and the Canadian .
honourable senators , the chairman of SOS Monfort , Dr. Lalonde , the chairman of the board of the Canadian the hospital , Dr. Michelle the Courville - Nicol , the Association Canadian French - the Ontario , the Honourable Senator Jean - Robert Gauthier , and that all those and those who have worked and explanation for save the unique centre directed to language French , Ontario , flag our deepest congratulations .
business routine
business Social , Science and Technology
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
the Honourable Michael Kirby , the Canadian the committee on learning of the business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , tabled the Prime report of the committee under the the article 104 the the Rules .
( the text of the report found to the Journals of the Senate . today , the motion
the Act , the border judicial
bill to the Second - Report of the committee
the Honourable Lorna Milne , Chair of the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional , the the report following :
the MARDI 30 November 99
the Committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the the honour to present its
REPORT REPORT
your Committee , which has been examined the Telecommunications the bill C - 7 , the Act , the Act , lots judicial and a place . in determining , the , pursuant to the Order of Reference of the 1998 17 November 99 , examined obedience bill to the and the fact , report with the amendments following :
page 2 , 4 , the the article 6 :
the motion replace the line 40 , page 2 , by the the following :
the 6.3 ( 1 ) ( definitions the impression the municipal the the present , the
the child to Nobody citizen of the Canadian 10 , eight years .
the human vuln?rable the Nobody the , in the Canadian the age , the one prohibits or the other circumstances temporary or source :
the motion be the in Government of addiction by the " the other people ;
b ) be short a danger of abuse or the mother , high that the people in general , the government . the human , Position of authority or the confidence by the " it .
( 2 ) The Commissioner must face in the " ;
b ) replace , in the French language , the line 43 , page 2 , by the the following :
the Royal the the Canada . indication allowing the ;
c ) replace the lines 4 and 7.5 , page 3 , by the the following :
the nation to a violation sexual having to the Journals the the respect to the the the the summer delivered to the
d ) add , after the line 5 , page 4 , the the following :
the motion 9 ) The Governor in the person , by ascertain , change the Journals to the state or in retrancher a violation sexual . " ;
e ) change the June hamstrung the rule , and that the introduction of the clauses , the in clauses .
the motion remove the the lines 10 and 11 , page 5 ;
b ) remove the the lines 16 , adding , page 5 ;
c ) change the June alphab?tique the the sub , and that the introduction of the clauses , the in clauses .
3 . Page 5 : add after the line 36 , page 5 , the the following :
4 . Page 6 : add , after the line 4 , page 6 , the the following :
the Journals
( 1 8.1 )
attached
( 2 6.3 ( 1 ) and ( 9 ) (
1 .
the heat the the provisions following the the Code offence :
the motion of subsection 7 ) replaced )
( offences the Order body involving the children , the foreign , by action or omission ) ;
b ) : the 151 ( contacts sexual - child of the Canadian p.m. years . the
c ) : the 152 ( incitation the Canadian and contacts sexual - child of the Canadian p.m. years . the
d ) : the 153 ( a the situation . authority by the " a person citizen of the the least p.m. years , but the least , adding years . the
e ) : the 153.1 ( a the situation . authority by the " a person with a charge ) ;
f ) : the 155 ( inceste ) ;
g ) : the 159 ( relations allowing anales ) ;
at ) : ( 160 ( 3 ) ( bestialit? the presence of a child emotional the least , at age , or incitation the one parent the least , at age of mistake the bestialit? ) ;
( Deputy the rule 163 ( 1 ) , " ( corruption the moeurs ) ;
j ) : ( 163 ( 2 ) , " ( corruption the moeurs ) ;
scientific ) : the 163.1 ( pornography crimes ) ;
l ) : the 168 ( a " the position of things obsc?nes ) ;
Mr. ) : the 170 ( father , everything or chronic the soup the entremetteur ) ;
67 ) : the 171 ( teacher of home the basis of the actions sexual expressly ) ;
o ) : the 172 ( corruption the children ) ;
prospered ) : the 173 ( actions ind?centes ) ;
q ) : ( grew ( 2 ) ( live the the events of the sex the one person citizen of the Canadian 18 years . the
Q ) : ( grew ( 2.1 )
( live the the events of the sex the one person citizen of the Canadian 18 years . the
St. ) : ( grew ( 4 ) ( supply or tried to supply of the services sexual the one person citizen of the Canadian 18 years . the
notwithstanding ) : the ship ( abuse sexual ) ;
u ) : ( 272 ( 1 ) and the rule 272 ( 2 ) , " ( abuse sexual with a weapon to fire ) ;
twenty ( the rule 272 ( 1 ) and the rule 272 ( 2 ) b ) ( abuse sexual , weapon to fire ) ;
w ( the article 273 ( abuse sexual serious ) ;
there ) : ( 273.3 ( 1 )
z ) : ( 273.3 ( 1 )
z .6 )
the article 463 the the the the policy , the attempted the mistake a violation having to the present Printed or the Canadian complicity , after the fact , the Canadian perp?tration the one such offence .
the motion of subsection 146,594 ( 1 ) ( tabling sexual with a person of the sex f?minin citizen of the Canadian p.m. years . the
b ) : ( 146,594 ( 2 ) ( tabling sexual with a person of the sex f?minin citizen of 14 years or more , the least , 16 years . the
c ) : the 151 ( s?duction the one person of the sex f?minin citizen of 16 years or more , the least , adding years . the
d ) : the 153 ( tabling sexual with his sister - daughter , and Fundamental , or his allegation ) ;
e ) : the 155 ( sodomie or bestialit? ) ;
f ) : the 157 ( actions of grossi?re ind?cence ) ;
g ) : the 166 ( father , everything or chronic the case of d?florement ) ;
at ) : the 167 ( teacher of home the basis of d?florement ) .
the motion of the 144 ( rape ) ;
b ) : the accounts ( attempt to rape ) ;
c ) : the 178 ( attentat the Canadian pudeur the one person of the sex f?minin ) ;
d ) : the 156 ( attentat the Canadian pudeur the one person of the sex male ) ;
e ) : the 245 ( put the fact little ) ;
f ) : ( 246 ( 1 ) ( put the fact , the Canadian mistake a mere criminal ) the
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Milne , the study of the report is placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
the adjournment
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the article 58 ( 1 ) at ) the the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate . stand today , the the remaining adjourned until the near , the 1998 1 December 1998 , the 13 at 1:30 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
library of the Parliament
notice of Motion During the committee Joint Committee on sit in the time that the Senate
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the mercredi1er December 1998 , I move :
that the Committee Joint Committee of the Library of the Parliament , though the Senate for the committee and the sittings of the Senate ; and
that a message be restored to the House of the House of the in the .
... the late ...
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
the Organization for the safety and the cooperation in Europe , The eighteenth session Annual the the Assembly Parliamentary Conference , St. - P?tersbourg , in Russia , p the the report of lad?l?gation Canadian
leave having been granted , back to the tabling of the reports the delegations Delegations :
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I have the honour to table , in the two languages official , the report of the delegation Canadian of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe , the the represented the Canada , the eighth session Annual the the Assembly Parliamentary the the Organization for the safety and the cooperation in Europe , held in St. - P?tersbourg , in Russia , the the 6 , the 12 July 1999 .
the Organization for the safety and the cooperation in Europe , The eighteenth session Annual the the Assembly Parliamentary Conference , St. - P?tersbourg , in Russia , Notice of inquiry
leave having been granted , back to the opinion of inquiry :
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I give notice that , Thursday next , the 2,500 December 1998 , I give the attention of the Senate on the report of the delegation Canadian of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe , the the represented the Canada , the eighth session Annual the the Assembly Parliamentary the the Organization for the safety and the cooperation in Europe , held in St. - P?tersbourg , in Russia , the the 6 au12 July 1999 .
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Transportation
mine , the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
i am sure that the Minister , the just as the the Canada Atlantic , the way note of the fact that the one of the motor air of our region . is the in senior these days , this .
it has a Communities direct , only on the mistreatment of the region , but also on a significant boomers the the workers .
w ( 1420 )
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , unfortunately , I do I do the the opportunity to read or the suggested the statement made by the chairman of Inter - Canadian .
i believe that the Inter - Canadian continue to have the the talks with his chief partners , the motion ? " - that the employee , Air Traffic , Canadian and the other Tax .
the purpose is the deal some problems and the government , permit the the services .
the " said , the the service Air is maintained the all the destinations tour by Inter - Canadian , the three places the Canadian and redundant are available .
it is the Canadian the Canadian uncertainty in the motion whistle the area of the transportation Air .
it highlights the most of talk the the principles set the the Minister of the Transport to the House of the House and hearing .
i will repeat the principles here for the fundamental the the honourable senators ,
the statement of principles ?mise by the Minister ?num?rait clear the five objectives of the political public . the government , the motion ? " - that the protection of the consumers , the price inordinate ; the peace - and services to the small communities , the the concern particularly the Honourable Senator ; the protection of the rights and the concerns of the employee ; the peace - the Competition in the extent of the possible ; the control Canadian in the facts .
these objectives remain those of the government .
the Supreme the the operations of Inter - Canadian - Government Position of a review by the committee , the Transportation and the the communication
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I thank the Minister of the answer .
i note that he has gained in his answer to make the reason the Minister of the Transport , set the five principles for the first time to Saint John , the the New - New , the Canadian reseller the the summer or the the beginning of the fall .
the Minister of the Transport , repeatedly these principles when he has appeared before the committee on the Canadian and Communications and the the communication and when he has appeared before the committee Standing the the Transportation of the House of Commons .
it seems to the capstone cornerstone of the answer to the government to the problem of Inter - Canadian , the motion . real .
the 13 August , then , the problem . was that appr?hend? , the government has invoqu? the power extraordinary provided to the article 47 of the Act , the Transportation .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I acknowledge the concern implicit in the question of the Honourable Senator .
however , he should not address his question to the chairman of the committee .
i do I do usurping the authority to the committee , the federal .
the senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , I want contact my question to the chairman of the committee .
in the , by courtesy , I have tried to the guys , but it . the said that it is an not in town of the Canadian week .
the Canada Atlantic and the other places the the motion of the Canada are a bothersome the the services air regional .
this is a fact .
this is the not a situation abstraite that appr?hendait the government , he has invoqu? the article 47 .
the application . was referred to the committee .
i have attended the matters of the meetings of the committee , he has examined the five principles set the the Minister .
the - the not think it is that some measures should be taken to the country Committee of the Transportation that the Whole this week ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I know that the Minister is very conscious of the situation .
in the , he continues to the " the close .
we think that he not there will no perturbation important to the conjunction with the communities tour by Inter - Canadian .
the some places , unfortunately , the aviation the the service by Inter - Canadian . will no impact real , as the motion of the " Sydney the first , the previous was withdrawn the the Order .
the question of the Honourable Senator is important .
the Minister goes the person the situation .
i bring certainly the concerns of the Honourable Senator the the Minister and , the Canadian first opportunity , the Canadian Historical the the committee .
i am a very well , the comfortable the " that a committee on the the Whole words , by the Canadian the decision of the committee and the the chairman .
the Supreme the the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - Government Position of a balancing government
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
my question . Comeau the Canadian the Canadian the corporation Inter - Canadian , the transporteur regional independent the most important to the Canada .
as the senator Kinsella : the said , the transporteur Air regional connection the people of the region . the Atlantic .
since three days , however , the the hundreds and the the hundreds of demanding the view , the extreme disrupts by the aviation the the services and the peace , the soil the the aircraft the this person .
this last happening it is the work , a plan of survival .
the the the the floor become , the the licensing immediate the one of the 15 million . $ , the motion ? the the the government . the Canada is prepared to do to the help to respond at the the needs financial pressants ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the government . the Canada is prepared to do the so that no centre not be left , and the
as the I know , he not there has not to the time , westerners the the not there is the service of incarceration .
the Minister has said that he would follow the situation .
he is certainly , certification with the officials of Inter - Canadian .
this is it is prudent the make the the time , the the opinion of the government , the motion of up to monitor the situation and ensure the the the one utility the alternative the available .
the senator Oliver :
honourable senators , the Honourable Minister has said that the the the full , he not there has no centre in the region . the Atlantic the Senate . service .
however , the services have been facing disrupts .
many of people have seen their bills of travel retard?s and the summer incommod?s because the the service . was interrompu and that the aircraft the summer blanketed the the soil .
in his answer to the senator Kinsella , the Leader of the government has said that he is the Canadian and opportunities .
this is the course not a solution permanent .
the Minister could the the the please the us that what the permanent the government will the the Inter - Canadian reprenne the Polish soon , with a plan Standing ?
the the past , the government has provided , sufficient and other , the air strikes Canadian .
that will be to the one transporteur the Universit the region . the Atlantic ?
the senator Boudreau :
this is the question of the important , concerning the Minister of the Transport and the government .
the right permanent must be the Canadian and goals of political that I have set the , the little of time .
the right permanent will it is the " Inter - Canadian or the one another transporteur , we do we , that the the moment .
in uncertainty , we must ensure the the the the communities . the not unlike the services .
as the I know , they have the the services in the time .
he is the one solution to alternative in all the communities .
the business Intergovernmental
the Quebec - Effect conditions force of a referendum - Conformity role of the Senate
the Honourable Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , I have a question to question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
as the plebiscite the functioning , a strong majority of the Canadian of the West support the Government firm that the Prime Minister has agreed to the respect to the sovereignists the the Quebec .
the so , the achievements Bouchard accept the umbrella of four years , the proposed the Prime Minister , it is virtually not the need to continue to question of guarding political and Constitutional to do with the first referendum the the future .
w ( 1430 )
as the Prime Minister has developed this issue of the carpet , the Leader of the government is it is the Senate . a role in harmony to help the way important to promote a discussion personalities and sensible the the future of a Canada united ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the senator has certainly the possibility of order to the " the Senate .
the entire clearly , it concern deep all the honourable .
i am eagerly , the the the the opinions of the honourable that taken in suggesting in all the discussions on the issues that the occasions the senator .
the Prime Minister . the not yet , how he could decide the deal of a subject of the clarity of the question and the Canadian portion .
i am sure that the honourable will be to the sincerity their point of the Act . the very important .
the Transportation
the Supreme the the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - Government Response of the government
the Honourable Ethel Cochrane :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
he is the three days , the chairman of the company air Inter - Canadian . wrote a letter to the Minister of the Transport .
in here , addressed :
the present to the honourable tell the Canadian company Inter - Canadian . in airport in the state Tisserant the us . we advised openly for the the months .
since the summer , when the summer raised in the first time , the Canadian the decision of the control of December Canada , the corporation Onex , the attention of the government . is concentr?e the the future of the two major companies air .
why , the the years of the process , the government has the fact ignoring the the concerns of the companies air regional and the people passenger ?
why it is the the the not put the the chairman of the company Inter - Canadian . advised the Minister of the Transport , he is the number months , the the process of merger of the great companies air would the serious consequences for the motor regional and their passenger ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the benefit of the service to all the Canadian . , the " the centre of the concerns of the Minister of the Transport and the the government , and it . False .
the manner the it would change the fate particular , a transporteur the one time , is a place . .
but it remains that , the one characteristic fundamental the Canadian political government , he would maintain the service in all the regions Canadian , there was in the small communities that connection Inter - Canadian .
i do I speak to put or the actions of the chairman of this person .
however , I can comment the the comments on the Government of the government and I believe that the principle of the service to the small communities remain the the heart of the political government .
the Supreme the the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - Conformity the Act , small communities
the Honourable Ethel Cochrane :
since both days , the lead the the , the Canadian and lose the jobs payments the Inter - Canadian .
the number of the losses the Employment d?passerait largely the internal or 900 employees of this person air .
he is available to many workers who are carried the the face of the aircraft in the mistreatment desservis by Inter - Canadian .
their jobs are also politically .
the example , I know that the Sunday , the prior to last , the the members of the staff to the soil the summer the " off the the Pearson the Stephenville in the home I , the Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
i draw the the the not there was not the service to rely the midnight Saturday last of the Pearson the Stephenville , the Newfoundland - Newfoundland , and the land firm the the Canada .
the government has the thought the the effect of domino the the happening and the the serious effects that he could be a the the small communities . the Canada Atlantic , the the Quebec and the same ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
in the the concerns of service to Stephenville , the Honourable Senator refers that he not there was not the service Air the Stephenville , the the Senate by the University of December Canada or the response Power .
the senator Cochrane :
this is exactly .
the senator Boudreau :
it is 24 , the the information that I have here .
however , I will convey this information to the Minister and the authority to the information , iterations the this regard .
the senator Kinsella :
please whether the Canadian the in the North - is the the New - New .
the Heritage
the possibility of a reason in the construction of the new Museum of the war
the Honourable Norman K . Atkins :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate and the the Museum Canadian of the war .
the Honourable Barnie Barney , the Canadian the Museum of the war , former veteran , member of the Council Office and former Minister of the National , the money . the energy to the function the government . consider the possibility of finance the construction of a new Museum of the war .
if you , buildings to the museum or the Canadian home Vimy , the regorgent all of the activities , you find the ones the people have the Canadian a new Museum .
the the left to the one - that would built the Rockcliffe , in the the Museum national the the corrective .
the government considering the serious the possibility of support the institution . a new Museum or not the - the the changes to answer lift the this issue ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the government considering serious the possibility of illness a monopoly support .
the fact , the government . is committed to the " the provision of the museum the ground of 20 tugboat located the Rockcliffe .
the the years of the evolution of the bill , the the fund additional will Winfrey the various sources , there was the the area private .
the government continue to be part of the bill , and I wish to the new that he is the root the specific the location necessary .
the senator Atkins :
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I do I do the the armed the somewhat decision that is that the end of the in veilleuse .
i have provided to the honourable senators , the recent information , I remember .
the objective of whether the the suggestions the funding to the public . the government and a contribution monetary the the area private would clearly be .
i will I shall , but I do know nothing to the the displaced the senator Atkins .
the senator Atkins :
the Minister could be the be sufficient . the I mentioned .
the Canadian and rumour , Mr. Barney is the contrari? that he is prepared to resign the the Museum Canadian of the war in the Canadian the Government agreed . the government .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I must say , new that I do I do the information to the subject .
i will certainly the Canadian and concerns of the Honourable Senator the the Minister .
the funding of the new Museum of the war
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
is the the true that the government . affectera the the fund to a new Museum of the war that if the area private commitment to the fund ?
what could well be the excuse the one such policy ?
w ( 1440 )
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I believe that the the , would a financing private , although the amount right . the not sure .
i believe that the the , would also a call the fund private .
the senator Murray :
the Minister is that the the long - and galleries national , by the the Museum of the civilization , the Museum of the Gallery - Conformity the the Canada , and Fundamental .
the Minister does the the Canadian and the the the funding federal , the construction and the functioning of such artwork the summer awarded the condition that the the fund private that the first collected ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I know , the the case of funding Joint Democrats the the fund . the government , and the the area private to the potential of the arguments .
that he has been a the galleries national or not , I do back the " to the time .
the Honourable Michael A . Meighen :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate admet certainly the , in a case , the Canadian the Museum Canadian of the war , he worth more than the government , the Opposition the leadership .
the funding of the area private must come by the following and the in the place .
the Leader of the government to the Senate worthwhile - the the things , this way or is the the the contrary ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
the other sources of funding government . " the study .
we hope that the bill be close realized .
the senator Meighen :
the senator Boudreau :
however , he is in the public . the the parties that the bill that the good well , reforming .
election Canada
the Manitoba - Government loss of information places
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , the the Globe and Mail , today , the Canadian life private de675 $ Manitobans - that all the Information the Canadian province - the summer abusing the the months of January when a Nobel the election Canada has lost a bunch enclosing the the information confidentiels .
he is a the the name of semiconductors , the their grief , the their deadline of Fredrick , the their race and the their respective the driver .
these information personal are useful to the business legitimate as the the activities convergence .
the us that the Canadian bunch would threaten in a place . enfouissement and that election Canada would have the the government to the knowledge incident . the incomplete the .
he is clear also that a principle basic Covenant the Canadian protection of the information personal the summer violated , the knowledge of principle of the consent .
the data Whelan to a reason given that should have the testing the one another the fault the consent of the human concern?e .
some Manitobans not have not have the opportunity to give them consent to the one or the other levels of the .
i have two questions . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the first , the government . excusera the Canadian . unfortunate incident the Canadian the people manitobaine ?
then , the government abandonnera the Hon. attitude cavali?re and adh?rera the " the principle basic the the consent - as the the the concerns of information , he is exchanged by the other provincial that the the the concerns of the the their grief ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the incident the talking the senator is really unfortunate and not the the first insignificant .
the band the the summer riding wended the the information personal from the Canadian flag of the Information and the the fishing the driver the the Manitoba .
this bunch is soul , the possession of Yesterday Canada , the the acknowledged that it has been deplore in a bac the dumping and that it is the not been recouvr?e .
this bunch wended the the information as the name , the question , the date of Fredrick , the sex and the Communist the fishing the driver and the plaque the construction of Manitobans .
election Canada has dual the full responsibility of the loss and the motion . hesitation that the the name of the government , I present my apologize to all the people affected .
the Canadian , after the incident , 1962 Canada . the Prime the authorities provincial , the the same Message the band .
a commission was the Law the - the - sought .
election Canada has reported that took the one Auditor the the foreign to the in itself . process of security , then the in the the changes reflected the the Auditor .
this incident . certainly unfortunate , but it is the hope that he not to God not .
the transfer of the data personal - Conformity principle of the consent
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I am delighted to the the the Honourable Leader of the Canadian and apologized .
this drug will the the most furniture .
i know however , I have received a response full , the the concerns of principle of the consent .
if the Leader of the not provide the answer to the the - sought , I , takes grateful the " person a response regarding the Canadian political the the government to the principle . basic .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I do I do . " the number of the courts of Nature the Canadian . supplementary .
the Honourable Senator Carstairs , it . forward to get his concern ?
the senator Spivak :
i believe that the data the are asking in a profit . should not be used to a place , the the consent of the human interested .
he is the one huge requirements of information , as we , we learned the , the are immediately to the government and the Canadian and agencies .
the , the the business vendent the the patient the obvious . the consent of the knowledge .
it takes the allure the one problem . itself .
i believe that the this incident . the nature accidentelle .
it is illustrated not least the need to clarify the the I consider as a principle extremely important .
the senator Boudreau :
i thank the Honourable Senator the the implementation of the point .
i understand the point .
i attempt to obtain a statement specific the this policy and I , he bring .
the Manitoba - Government loss of information places - Effect procedures of security the the data personal
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , the Canadian the examination of the Senate . the Act campaign to the Canada , some of the us we , the reserves the the same basis , the knowledge , in what the the information personal would the people protected and the procedures implemented in the armed - they or not peaceful ?
the government . the Canada and running Canada . the amorphous that is such a leading not win not to produce .
i am vehemence that the Leader of Yesterday Canada say now that election Canada is the gap the end of the Canadian and procedures for stopping the the Somalia . the proposal .
it is it . d?duire that he not there was the " now no Rules or any system of control . the years , the Canadian the Act campaign ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I do I do that my honourable friend , thereby a custom conclusion .
however , the the recommendations . was made to the Canadian and the additional that taken and collective .
a number considerable the information . Message the election Canada and , happily , the kind of Cit the us about the day . rare .
in the , the the the attention our attention , the motion record because the that the product . rarely .
these provisions have been renforc?es , bear - in participating .
what the members of the actions , I do workforce not until the " that he not be not in the future . the information that unwitting correspondence .
the " English however , these provisions are in the Canadian be renforc?es and that knowledge incident . is the investigator the the unique .
the senator Andreychuk :
honourable senators , by the Canadian this very serious offences , not appropriate , he not the end of the one of the Parliaments , or a group of resolute , the veillerait the the the that the the incomplete the ?
these assurance we have already been given the the past , and the ages that the " that today , the call the Canadian Technology new to transfer . issues of the private entailed .
my faith . ?branl?e , the Act , the legislative , particularly in the Canadian protection of the life private , we wanted virtually all the the system basically and we have coop?r? in the meaning .
the time . is the the not required to a review independent to us to the the procedures ensured are indeed , the ?
w ( 1450 )
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , in the case , we ' s , Manitoba , the almost immediately advised and informed the the process took .
i embassy also that the commissioner to the protection of the life private the summer time the " the armed , the the the the Hon. introduce to the changes to the summer bearing , and that he was the first , the rest that all the average reasonable that now the in the to us to the one incident similar not to God not .
the fishery and the Oceans
the provinces Maritimes - Government to the Canadian Court Supreme confirmant the rights of Fisheries and the aboriginal - Effect the consolidation the the Upholder the fishing to the aboriginal
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , the 4 November , I have asked to the Minister of the looking provide the the details the Canadian proposal default the end of being 500 million . $ to fund the Upholder the fishing to the fishermen aboriginal the the Canada Atlantic .
the Minister . the not have equipment the details to the time , that the
as it is the previous , my question . Salsberg the Canadian decision Marshall the Canadian Court Supreme .
the Minister is the the day , in the Canadian we provide the most forth information ?
the the not the motion . , the - the the highest the the Department sake ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I do I do the extent of providing the the Honourable Senator , the information today , the the Order the the the point of the .
i will certainly I enqu?rir the the subject to the the Minister of the Fisheries .
the senator Comeau :
honourable senators , the Minister should be the the not to a not the one issue . the " the Canada Atlantic , particularly in Nova Scotia Nova , after the devastating the the agreement reached between the fishermen and the aboriginal .
this sentiment will clearly , a Communities the the future of the communities coastal and the Minister should give a more , the " the situation .
it has the the impact in the the Canada , particularly in the region . does the well , Minister .
he should avoid a certain pressure to deal of the .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I discussed the the the is the one issue . important , the will be the the Prime the Canadian our concerns for a number of the
he is vital that the Canadian understand that the solutions to this issue . important to be the the solutions concerning involved and that EI , the the meaning quite , all the Canadian and the not only the fishermen the Canadian Nova Scotia Nova and the the New - New .
answers delayed the Canadian and the control
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I have the the answers delayed the the issues Oral the the Honourable Senator Kinsella , the the Honourable Senator Rivest and the the Honourable Senator Bolduc , raised in the Senate 16 November 99 , the the Biohazard Canadian of the security of security , the loss of documents classifi?s and the examination of the committee , training the the activities of the security of security .
i have also a response to the question , the summer raised in the Senate . 18 November 99 by the Honourable Senator Spivak and the broad the Agreement - free - free North - American and a passage intent?e by a society Processors , adjustments the Canadian Grain the one contract the Upholder the water , vrac .
the Solicitor General
the Biohazard Canadian of the security of security , The loss of documents classifi?s - Conformity the Canadian the committee , training the the activities of the security of security
( response to the issues raised by the honorablesNo?l A . Kinsella , Jean - Claude Rivest and Roch Bolducle 16 November 99 . )
( the inclusion the examinations and the Canadian notification the the CSARS )
the CHST the chairman of the committee , training the the activities of security of security , Co Paule Gauthier . said , the Canadian interviews the press recent , the United the Solicitor General or the steering the the SCRS not have expected to the prevention of such incidents .
the SCRS slow now , the Canadian Transportation Economy , and the Inspecteur General , the provincial and the Solicitor General , the well the .
the CSARS the career a review of the home this .
let the CSARS and the Inspecteur General to their work .
this are the the statutory the Parliaments independent the people . the powers necessary to have access to the information of the SCRS , as the Constitution . Act , the Parliament .
( the Act , comments of the Prime Minister of
the Prime Minister know that three investigation . in the Act . the , there was the the poorest the committee , training the the activities of security of security ( CSARS ) and the Inspecteur General for the SCRS .
the government is sure that these two mechanisms the surveillanceind?pendants , the the existence is scheduled by a bill to Parliament , will unacc?s total the the information of the SCRS and vigour , and the .
he is important to the lurch to their work .
( the Act , providing the the document and the the procedures of security )
the the the , the Canadian and inquiries and the the examinations the years , he would inappropriate the comment the nature exactly the the documents manquants or the procedures divesting the treatment of documents the this nature .
the steering the the SCRS the guaranteed that all the government to the actions for the the required respect to the political background , the Canadian Transportation .
the one time , he is leave of CSARS and the Inspecteur General of the SCRS continue their reviews independent .
( the Act , Director of the SCRS )
the government has done in the capabilities the the Directeur and , a time , the I urge the lurch the SCRS , the the statutory the Parliaments the the foreign that are the CSARS and the Inspecteur General continue their reviews .
the committee members of properly all the witnesses that they choose documentation .
the trade internationally
the Agreement - free - free North - American - Conformity civil magazine by a society Processors , adjustments the Canadian Grain the one contract the Upholder the water , vrac - Government Position of the government
( response to the question raised by the Honourable Mira Spivak the 18 November 99 . )
the case of the MMT not the not consider the previous to the answer to the government in the other matter arising the the chapter 11 , the NAFTA .
each the motion considered respond , the Hon. the - based .
the group Special established to the words of the Agreement on the trade within ( ACI ) , the Hon. the prior to the other hardship court . in concluding the this stage .
the group . agreement that the extent the the MMT the the level of the trade interprovincial was contrary to the objectives of the agreement .
the follow the bill to the decision of the group Special the the ACI , the Canada has pointed the MMT the Canadian list of the events chemical convention by the removal the the trade interprovincial and the Income .
it has also allowed to the Canada . deal to the secrecy with Ethyl Corporation .
the case of the MMT in the part of the NAFTA . is not care - the significance of the arguments relating to the federal , and no sentence final not the summer made .
the corporation Sun Belt WaterInc. ( Sun Belt ) , the California , the report of year , a " Notification the the intent of options a regulatory the the arbitrage the , in Conformity with the provisions of the chapter 11 , the NAFTA the the Order of the differences between a prohibited and a state .
the two , the and the recent the November 99 , Sun Belt the regulation the Star the Orders of arbitrage the single a Notice of arbitrage the the Canada .
however , the two documents , the not levies not to the requirements proc?durales the the chapter 11 , the NAFTA , and the Canada has the in determining , informed Sun Belt that , the Hon. the , no Rules and arbitrage the the words duchapitre 11 , the summer enclench?e .
our position is that no Rules and arbitrage the the words of the chapter 11 , the start the the Sun Belt not be introduced a Notice of arbitrage unfortunate .
in the documents made to the Order , Sun Belt claims that the British - British the way , and 1989 and now , throughout the government to contrary to the provisions of the chapter 11 , the NAFTA , there was the licensing , in 1989 , the fishing the export of water , vrac , and the conduct of the Hill General to the respect to the action . Her the Middle the January 1993 . - allegations of offenders along by the Canada , the respect to the NAFTA improve the GST 1102 ( Traitement national ) , 1105 ( Norme the treatment minimum ) and 1110 ( Expropriation and compensation ) .
the Antarctic and the Order adopted . 1991 , the British - British prevented the export of water , vrac are filed the the coming to the are contrary to the right international , but no reference direct not . the " the the heat the the provisions of the NAFTA .
the Canada is time increase the transparency in the procedures related to the Order of the differences between a prohibited and a state .
in the extent of the possible , he strongly the opening in the procedures and the " the requ?rant the make the same .
the Canada is committed to appeal drew the complaint introduced , he , the Sun Belt the the words of the chapter 11 , the NAFTA , if this discovery is definitely the the arbitrage the the rules .
in the case DESONA , a court set in order to the chapter 11 , the NAFTA . recently made a judgment fully the the advantage of the Mexico , in concluant that the - the not had the in the foundation , excessively no - and obligations to the words of the chapter .
this is the first time that a court set in order to the chapter 11 , the NAFTA to hear , the involving a prohibited and a state makes a sentence final .
in his findings , the court . set of the limits clear as the the interpretation of the obligations duchapitre 11 the the investment , they were raised in this matter .
the sentence shows that these obligations . the not extensibles , and that their promotions is limited .
the ORDRE business orders
the speech , the Throne
motion of my the answer to Continued the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Jeffrey , seconded by the Honourable Senator Furey , seconded the the adoption of a Adresse the Governor General of Gouverneure general , on the the speech that contemporaries the speech in the the opening of the second session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament . - (
5e on the Canadian resuming the the debate adjourned .
the Honourable Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , he is a80 years about the in the turn of the Paix , the wonderful symbol of the peace , provides a comforting global the the Parliament of the Canada , the the name of appreciation following , artifice the the Proverbes : " Faute the vision , the people living , backed ; I , silent the bill . "
the the time when we are pr?parons the door in a new century and a new millennium , we should ponder intens?ment the the proverbe the the Saintes scriptures .
what is our vision ?
that envisageons - we to the Canada : a country . abondance , the Canadian one espaces , the export and the resources , the progress technological and the tremendous energies human ?
how envisageons - we , Canada , report , the rest of the world , in this period crucial the the history of the world , the the human the the power to make the safety , the betterment , the Canadian planet the ambulance ?
the arrival of a new century the Canadian centrer our attention of only on the - the in our country leading , but also on the village overall the possible , the prodiges the Canadian Technology .
when we regardons the world in the whole , we should be surprised and shame the look the tremendous suffering tol?r?es by the disadvantages political the the world .
the century century . was the most sanglant the the history of the betterment , then , the Canadian 110 million . the people were atrociously for the the Oklahoma , the the potential three times . the all the Late account the Canadian War been the first , 100 , sins - Christ .
during the Canadian and Indonesia are familiar and drink , the great feed the resources , the most tall the country , transfer their situation . eroded , more .
sixty country . poorer regularly been 1980 .
the services of housing , the health and the education are occupation values in the world world .
w ( 1500 )
the so we , the the Canada , we lucrative urbanity the basis of the standards international , the not . not a reason for the regulatory or CWB the us .
the the years of the ten years in the the number of poor the the Canada is spent the 3,7 million . the " the Canadian 5 million , the the potential cent per - the people .
the Canadian 1.5 million . children , a child the five , the living in the poverty .
the problem of the fault - free the summer qualified the disaster national by the odd the the ten the great cities of the country .
in the the Canada , the governments Who in the funding destined to the program social , the Canadian health and the the education .
the governments r?duisent their deficits the the background of the poor .
in the years 90 , the credits spent in the Program of the public , the development of the Canada . was diminished de37p. per , and yet , the the time at the our fiscal military not have pushed that the 19p. per the our fiscal years , floods years of the war cold .
the Canada has d?pens?690 million . $ to participate in the war the the Gulf et18 million . $ to the bombs largu?es the the Kosovo and the Serbie the the spring the .
the the Canada as the the foreign , we do with the Canadian and disparit?s choquantes and the Canadian bad priorities .
in a world . abondance , the justice social , the deadline that have the
we Bosnia the Canadian and Indonesia the not should not have the .
the great showdown facilities the the weapons nuclear the gastrointestinal time , threatened the betterment .
the governments of the planet adjustment a militarisme excessive the the background of the poor .
cooperative , the priorities of the government in the Canadian Estimates military are follement Property by the " as the delivery the Estimates aside the the development economic and social the one time when the lack of development . the acknowledged as the Canadian , the threat that can love the the plan of the safety of the the least d?velopp?s .
this is a situation . the negative , both the " and ensuing immense in the part of the the governments players the one side , they are unable to fund the needs social , because of the deficits and archivists the the other . the amounts huge the Canadian War and the the preparation .
the year , the the follow the summit the the child in 1990 , the the motion being the Canadian and address and the Canadian money , the government has suddenly found 60 billion . $ to participate in the war the the Gulf .
the industry . the weapons is the puissante and the impact . the envahissante that the - the affecte almost all the issues of the corporation sustained .
the country Strike gross double 483 billion . $ the Canadian Defence , but only 48 billion . $ the the assistance public , the development , the motion meant answer to the needs of security human the the regions of the d?stabilis?es in the world .
the the small amount of the motion has the question , but the credits military franchissent the process Works , the doctors .
the fact , the motion that a developing economic sustainable the make let it is the the tensions pre the Canadian War .
this is that the lesson that we should learn desann?es 90 .
he can make the the Employment the Canadian force be legitimate in the movie the Canadian peace ; however , if the " no redonne not to the Council of security the role pr??minent as one kind of legitimacy the the use the Canadian force , the Universe short turnarounds to the anarchie .
the not be allowed the NATO determine the - the " what the the , will use the Canadian force ; yet , the the opportunity to the summit fiftieth the fiftieth anniversary of the NATO , the the motion defenders , after the beginning of the bombing the the Kosovo , the leadership have made deliberately the decision of the credit the role of arbitre responsible for trying to the time appropriate to use of which the
the gloatingly excessive the the NATO link now , inequality and the lowest .
the Russes and the Chinese not resolve have a Cosmos domin? by the NATO .
the , the consequences of the war the the Kosovo the brief the way of cost human .
the hopes that the " orchid to a system of security World the are fracass?s , the ?cueils the the power .
the confidence suscit?e by the the " Here be the end of the war cold is today , having .
a new leadership , the armements nuclear is the fear , Washington , Moscow and Beijing not doing not to cooperate the new .
the world . heads . the Gulf the gulf nuclear , quite hysterical by the India and the Pakistan .
the declining that risk of weapons nuclear will enhance .
this Conservatives should urging the people of the political , the public . the government and the Canadian society civil the act .
the Canada . " the the Goods the one stock d?cisive the the abstenant the vote , the United Nations , as the Canadian the resolution introduced this year in the part of the new program and Engage the the strongest nuclear the the CCN , jurisdictional the Tibetan the the negotiations Work the the Elimination of the weapons nuclear .
that he is whether the the weapons nuclear or the Canadian War , the Kosovo , the the motion in the , the motion of law , the right .
how the right international will be imposed in the years , in the
the will be the one Oath military who wants to the the should be the right to the one substantive within global the implementation of the respect to the law , the right in the part of the United Nations ?
is the question fundamental the the problem . the Canada , the direction of the new millennium .
honourable senators , the so , does the I just the tracer is sadness , the motion with hope that I wish to the " the new millennium .
my hope section in the best understanding that we have the so that community human the one , interreli? in every unequivocal the dark .
despite the Oklahoma , the hunger , the number of the - free and the disease the Equalization the the $ the ones human , the world advance however , a new to the lead the business international , the demands a more , bringing the all the the motion . approach the the people .
this movement the jobs , the proceeding to a crop . the peace .
the said repeatedly that the war . inexorable , the it is part of the nature human and that the human the battent been a .
this analysis is lift .
the ones human not have not g?n?tiquement programm?s to do the war .
he not there has no part relinquish inherent the country nature of a the violence .
the UNESCO the out that the war begin in the head ; and the , he we must be entering in our minds the new concept that the Canadian peace is absolutely necessary in a method technologique the destruction mass .
the violation the pessimisme present , he is imposed that the war . is not normally .
the violence such as the the the view , targets , in Bosnia , the the catalogued , in Somalia , the the Kosovo and the not ?merge not inexorably the the interaction human .
as the haine and the incitation the Canadian violence Landry by the in?galit?s Social and economic , and employers to a blood easy , weapons Mudslide , are so evident , he is essential and none of truth how prevent the Canadian and multilateral not escalate the mother overwhelmingly violent .
the real problem here . is not the us know , the Canadian violence tender and the dispute , but rather than we know how we .
the the us not justified no attention to the tueries the the fatalities in the regions , not have not to the centre of our interests , or , the as the Canadian the " the Kosovo , we d?cha?nons a corvette the destruction the coming of save the betterment .
the examples of the point chauds in the world indicate that the potential of violence the be broadcast by the application h?tive , habile and int?gr?e the government policies , diplomatic , economic and military .
the so , totally suffering . Finland , the not be denied that the parties in War , incomes the weapons the the Salvador , in Namibia , the the Mozambique , in Africa , the South , the the URNG and the the Philippines .
the agreements of peace , Ireland the the North and the the Middle - East , the the people are pr?caires , played the the desire to peace - the man can come to go to the aerials the conflict .
since 1945 , the United the target 172 regulations diplomatic the people in a long to the the mother regional , there was the end of the war of the Iran and the targets and the withdrawal of the troops encroachment in Afghanistan .
the war and the violence are generally the Assemblies of making political d?lib?r?es .
the the Canadian can the Canadian and conflict have determined to speak and the ways then , manufacturing the peace , he is the human and the effective the prevention the violence in the attaquant the the causes first .
this is the emphasis of a approach to a crop . the peace .
the efforts respectable the the UNESCO the view of eradicating a crop . the peace are inspirants .
in response to a request the the one was expressed by the Assembly general , the United Nations to the it tender the idea of a crop . the peace as approach to the Canadian prevent the violence and the mother armed , the UNESCO the positioning the standards , the values and the objectives to the use of culture the Canadian peace .
w ( 1510 )
a wit the peace , the motion of the Canadian values , the attitudes , the traditions , the Hague and the revised the life , reflect and figures the respect to the life and the the rights of the human .
this is opposing the violence the all its forms and the motion . to the prevention the mother violent , the attaquant the people causes first , the seaway the the dialogue and the Canadian negotiating .
the not acquiert not a wit the peace - the Order of the next .
the the place . However the way of delivering the war , the Canada should support of the Hon. ordinary the efforts of the Secretary General of the United Nations , Kofi Annan , the the importance recently , these words , need to promote a crop . the peace :
he seems time that the culture the Canadian peace . the no chance to the culture the Canadian War , the culture the Canadian violence , and the culture the the impunit? and the the intolerance .
the peace a person - be a challenge of obtaining ; it is the - be the rural the the actions conduites in the many areas and the question , the the opportunity , the one little look the foot of the opportunity .
the process that the federalists the Canadian , long and painful , the Canadian , ended and imparfait a time chosen .
honourable senators , these thoughts the summer concerns with existing the Canadian Conference , the Canadian the peace hosted the Government Hague , May the ; this event of four days . r?uni7 $ the Canadian per nationalit?s different decade attend the Canadian and s?minaires and the the ballet , the Canadian and expositions and to the one myriad of the in favour of the peace .
the the defray the one culture the Canadian peace , the Canada is developing the the political , seeks the safety of the human , the implementation of the Canadian new coalitions and the passage of new talks , the globe the law , the right , the privil?gient the initiatives the peace , the decision of making democratic , and the intervention humanitarian allowable by the Council of security .
he is the Canadian Constitution the political , into the Constitution prompted the the $ the $ are spent in the Sudan and the Canadian militarisation , then , the fault of financements , are sacrifi?es the ones initiatives , the Canadian the development and the the actions . , laudable the vote of the peace and the Canadian Transportation .
honourable senators , the culture the Canadian peace is a goal achievable , certainly , but it is also incontournable .
in the absence of a crop . the peace , the the $ and the the $ the human seasons the p?rir .
the Canada can the the vast , the Canadian the law , the United Nations in the Canadian resolution of the mother ?
i think that we , we and that is the same our duty of the make .
the Canada can the the the privilege with the the United the the Province similar to convince the country legal the one ability nuclear the the CCN in the the negotiations to the clean this civilized ?
i think that we , we and that is the same our duty of the make .
the mandate the Canadian and Agricultural Nations - save the the generations to come to affres the Canadian War - should be a the the concerns fundamental the the government . the Canada .
the perspective of a crop . the peace the us to a force task , the next millennium .
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , the senator Roche would the the Canadian answer to a question ?
the senator Roche :
certainly .
the senator Grafstein :
the senator Roche and I have already discussed the this issue .
however , I like to hear , the the the " that , particularly in the the concerns of the Canadian and Agricultural Nations .
the Secretary General has recently blamed the United Nations to their failure to Srebrenica .
the other observers have said , the matter , the the the United Nations had eye to the task seen the events disasters the Srebrenica .
i would the house words : the United Nations have established to Srebrenica a shelter the the people were perhaps the safety , but the eleventh victims . enfuyant to the r?fugier the the flag white the the United Nations , the summer massacr?es .
the Secretary General Kofi Annan the said that this failure was output the the United Nations .
how r?concilier the opinion of the Honourable Senator , the broad the United Nations , a body overall , abandoned and pacificateur , with the fact , this body , the tasking the the difficulty , the very d?poss?d? , impuissant and the use ?
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
hon. Senator Roche , I regret to interrupt you interrupt , but I must you wish to the time , you , namely , up .
farming - you , leave of up ?
the senator Roche :
yes , I ask the leave of pursuing .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
is the the Canadian agreed , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement
the senator Roche :
i would thank , honourable senators ,
the senator Grafstein has criticized advertising the United Nations .
i hope that he not me in secret not the " that the tab not the not full .
i do I have said that the United Nations , a farce perfect , not more than I rough the government . the Canada . institution perfect .
however , he is certainly the support of the political , marine the establishing of the conditions propices the Canadian peace , and the motion exactly what the understanding of the the United Nations .
i donnerai a single example .
the government . the Canada has seconded the formation of a force police permanent the would mobilis?e the case of conflict to save the the lives .
the case of the Opposition the the great showdown , the United Nations . the not yet to the single , and a moment force police .
the Canadian offered the the next century , we should restore the law , the United Nations and not . to the Canadian and associations regional , the so that are the important associations as the NATO , the the hands of the authority to the United Nations , as the Main officer legal the peace and the safety in the world .
is what should be our view of mire .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Atkins , the debate is adjourned . )
privileges , Standing and Orders
the Canadian the second report of the committee
the Senate proceeded to the study of the second report of the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules ( church morave the North ) , the " the Senate 24 November 99 . - ( - ( Senator Austin , P ) .
the Honourable Jack Austin :
honourable senators , I move the adoption of the report .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is passed . )
third report of the committee , Stands the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
the Canadian the third report of the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules ( a the privilege of the senator Kinsella ( , tabled the the Senate 24 November 99 . - ( - ( Senator Austin , P ) .
the Honourable Jack Austin :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , I wish to a short explanation and the introduction of the Canadian the report , the point of the .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Austin :
honourable senators , I have the the concerns as the Canadian Availability of evidence corroborantes and adequate the Canadian . .
this last the however , resolved if the witnesses . loans to testify , at the private that the camera closed .
i recueille the the opinion , this regard and , rather than the meeting of discussion to the basis when the right common to the committee to camera closed , I prefer that the article in the study the order to tomorrow .
w ( rald )
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I wish to the criteria the other information , the chairman of the committee take the Canadian the fact that it is the one we are the opinion that the rule general , all the deliberations of the Parliament of the Canada should be public .
we recognize that he is the , the time to other , some questions , the be treated the camera closed .
the study by a committee , a draft of the in the one example .
the result , I urge the committee to driver the deliberations publicly and the not to camera closed .
in the extent the this issue of privilege particular to the circumstances surrounding the adoption of the Canadian pressure to the work , I wish to remind the the chairman and the the members of the committee , could have the the clear to the subject that , in order to the right to the work , the issues of arbitrage not have not debatable the camera closed , but publicly .
finally , in the extent the the motion , the I raised the question of privilege and the the committee to the I arrive the the Senate , I must say that I would be the the difficulty the evidence to camera closed the the committee .
this is a principle of the I am based to operate .
i urge the committee to take all these issues in suggesting .
the senator Austin :
honourable senators , I acknowledge the medical the the principles that the senator Kinsella , the highlight .
i think that is the " the chairman of the committee that he considers the opportunity to the Senate ? the would appropriate to be a meeting of camera closed .
these reasons can the ports or not in the foundation .
( the Senate . adjourned . the 1998 1 December 1998 , the 13 at 1:30 . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue p.m.
the 1998 1 er December 1998
the Honourable Rose - Marie Losier - Cool , Speaker pro tempore
table of the dumping
Maxwell Tabled '
the Day World of the AIDS
the Francophonie
the inspecteur Robert Upshaw the Canadian Mounted
tributes to the opportunity to his promotion
business routine
prepared Canadian of the Church morave the North
bill to the Canadian public sector amend the Act establish the human moral - Introduction of a petition
the Estimates , the Estimates , 1999 - 2000
notice of Motion During the committee , the Finance Finance to study of 1998 , the Estimates
finance Finance
notice of Motion During the committee to allow the premature the the deliberations , the the average electronic
notice of Motion During the committee to engage the the staff
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the business foreign
the d?passement the the Estimates , remain down to some celebrating the the Canada
the development of the resources human
the level adequate the Canadian provision of the pension of the assurance - job
the Council of the Treasury
the report of the Auditor General - Conformity licensing of markets , a donation single - Conformity institution . a mechanism the examination required to the market
the Finance
the report of the Auditor General - Effect problems associated the one of the estimate of the surplus budget
the National Defence
the report of the Auditor General - Government in the implementation of the Program of Ethics the Canadian National
the Heritage
the delay in the construction of the new Museum of the war - Government protection of the tr?sors national
the new Museum of the war - Government nature of the funding private
the Senate . the Senate
answer regarding the one issue orale
the justice
the possibility of protecting more the people , the violence
on business orders
the Act , and the implementation of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
second reading
referred to the committee
the Act , the Royal Assent
second reading of Motion to vote , Point the the Order - Adjourned the the debate in the armistice the Canadian decision of the Speaker
motion of amendment
use the the Rules
business legal and Constitutional
leave to the committee , sitting , the time that the Senate
banks and Commerce
leave to the committee , sitting , the time that the Senate
energy , Environment and gas natural
motion to the cultivation the committee to examine the Act , the Canadian protection of the Environment - Adjourned the the debate
the Senate . the Senate
use the the Rules
energy , Environment and gas natural
leave to the committee , to the the issues related to the mandate
leave to the committee , to the the staff and the the place , Adjourned the the debate
leave to the committee , to the premature the the deliberations , the media coverage
the Senate
the 1998 1 December 1998
the Chair . Chair . In at 1:30 , the Speaker pro tempore the " the Chair .
prayers .
the Day World of the AIDS
the Honourable Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators , I rise to speak today , for the Canadian Francophonie World of the AIDS .
the the least 109 country recognize that day , which brings the attention of a medical the affecte the the people in the world world .
the Day World of the AIDS to the lore more the world . the terrible illness and the collection of the fund additional the view of the end of the
he is the previous nice lurette that the AIDS not . the assimil? the one aging the starting .
this disease contagieuse mortelle the attack the all the GST Social , the meeting the Canadian the race , the the sex or the Canadian the social or economic .
ONUSIDA , the board of the United Nations committee , to the disease and the keynotes the spread of the virus , the recent article a report outlining the terrible threat that this outbreak the mess the the world world .
some 5,6 million . the will 1986 this year only , the the emergency the 33,6 million the number of humans human suffering of this disease .
the impact of increased the 10 per by the " the year , the the AIDS continue to the r?pandre as a den of brousse .
the spread of the progressive properly the the use of compliance injectables is absolutely a problem none .
he is a time that the Canada appear a approach to the the concerns of health public , as the people . , the Great - Britain , the Netherlands - speaking , the Australia and the Swiss , the relationship to the toxicomanes the access to various models of treatment , the the limit the Canadian promotion of the forbearance , but the in legal the assistance financial assistance to the locations the treatment .
the twelfth Day World Annual the the AIDS the question to the young the the world world .
the theme of this year . " - child and the young :
hear , learned , live in the
this is the " the appropriate given the the , the the report of the United , the most of the victims of the AIDS contractent the virus before the have reached the age of 25 years and arduous before the celebration their 30 - fifth anniversary .
the US that the information with the the young is the approach the most exciting the Senate to reduce the spread of the virus the the progressive .
today , the 20 years after the Canadian first outbreak that hit , ONUSIDA that the the worst , the coming to the Canadian a developing the the efforts in the Canadian Infectious this disease .
the the direction of the new millennium , we must focus our efforts on the education , the prevention , the improvement of the care of health and finally , namely , the , the treatment .
the provinces , to a long to this terrible outbreak , we must get a call the the leaders of the country . the world world to the people conjuguent their efforts .
this is the the in working together the us can expect the " telling the this disease .
the Francophonie
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , the Francophonie , is removal clear to the protection of the diversity cultural .
r?unie the Paris the 30 November 99 , the Conference initiated speaking , chaired by the Honourable Ronald Duhamel , Secretary of the Canadian , the Francophonie , the r?affirm? the principle have set at the the Summit of Moncton , the knowledge that :
the foreign Cultural not be in any way . r?ductibles the their only extent economic and Shipping and that the United and governments have the right to establish assume their political cultural .
the Secretary General of the Organization international the Canadian francophonie , Mr. Boutros Boutros - Ghali , the said , the side , the country French . be not accept the the " rules , could fall of identit?s Finance to the
the Francophonie international is the so , passion the the principle basic the Canadian diversity cultural and the the plurilinguisme that they are the basis philosophique and his right to be .
as you the you , honourable senators , in the report on the political foreign the the Canada " : " Principes and priorities to the future . , tabled the , the five years ago , the committee , the House and the the Senate had the " that time , clearly established , the the chapter 6 , the report , and I quote :
the committee does strongly that the political foreign the the Canada dealing the business cultural , scientists and ?ducationnelles must be part integral the one of National , RFP the police with the provinces .
each country . the identity cultural the the motion own , and the unicit? deserves a single particular .
the Canada is reaffirm his position to the nouer the the welfare to do recognize the need to protect and the use of crops Finance .
... the late ...
the inspecteur Robert Upshaw the Canadian Mounted
tributes to the opportunity to his promotion
leave having been granted , back to the statements of senators ,
the Honourable Calvin Woodrow Ruck :
he seems that is that the Prime Noir the objective a diplomat , high in the RCMP .
we are extremely proud of our brother Robert Upshaw and we , wish to better . the opportunity to the passage of the work , because he ; a global the the young the choosing to the kind roles the consistent the use of Prairie hon. Senators the preserve Royal the the Canada .
business routine
prepared Canadian of the Church morave the North
bill to the Canadian public sector amend the Act establish the human moral - Introduction of a petition
the Honourable Nicholas W . Taylor :
the Estimates , the Estimates , 1999 - 2000
notice of Motion During the committee , the Finance Finance to study of 1998 , the Estimates
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I give notice that Thursday next , the 2,500 December 1998 , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian and money Finance be authorized to study , to the in the report , the Estimates expenditures in the Estimates , the Estimates for the fiscal fiscal the closing the 31 March 2000 ; and
that the Committee present its report , the most final 31 March 2000 .
finance Finance
notice of Motion During the committee to allow the premature the the deliberations , the the average electronic
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I give notice that Thursday next , the 2,500 December 1998 , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian and money Finance be authorized to allow the heading the the deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible . the .
notice of Motion During the committee to engage the the staff
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I give notice that Thursday next , the 2,500 December 1998 , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian and money Finance be authorized to withhold the services of counsel legal , the staff technical , the employee of office and the other people to the need , for help the Committee on the the bills of the , the substance of these games and the Estimates , he have been providing .
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the business foreign
the d?passement the the Estimates , remain down to some celebrating the the Canada
the Honourable Terry Stratton :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate and the Canadian . the I have raised the week , the the subject of the Department of the Foreign Affairs , the would beyond fun per - 33 array meet in the budget Main the the Estimates .
the Estimates , are high now ?130 million . $ to the Senate . build , dont70 million for the construction of our embassy in Germany , because of the transfer of the capital allemande the Bonn the Berlin .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
this is shameful !
the senator Stratton :
these issues . was raised before the committee , the Finance to the time when he is generally on the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates .
i have asked to the door - speaking of the Council of the Treasury the horrendous the d?passement the 50 per - and cost and the " to the the numbers iterations .
they have promised to obtain the information and the Leader of the government to the Senate . the Canadian , the
i must recognize that the senator Hays has always " enough to the our questions .
i trust that he can count on a fixed the important , because of Senator Carstairs , put the long .
a vote :
he has the the Alberta .
the senator Stratton :
a Albertan would the the most effective that a Manitobain ?
i do the understanding that "
two questions . was raised , the one of the meeting of the committee , the Finance and the other , the Senate , the week , the
they are relatively little .
i have nothing by way of reply to 1995 5 , the daily The Ottawa Citizen of the morning .
the Leader of the government to the Senate should be the be . to the answers to the issues .
i could he is that the sixth , in Korea , he is the one d?passement the 22 million . $ .
the most , the d?passement the have resulted the cancellation of the bill .
the Department of bought a ground for 15 million . $ the , the five years .
this land is preferably .
if the substantial the method of Arriving the the interests of the cost of surgery facilitate million . $ the five years , the skilled a cost of surgery the 8 million . $ the the 15 million . $ .
he is the then the comparative the York Delhi , in India , the the cost 200 $ $ the most that expected .
the senator Di Nino :
it is much of money in India .
the senator Stratton :
that is the the the the existence the the Department of the Foreign Affairs , the the not be not replied the cost ?
i can understand that the sort . the the body of dental in the area local the the b?timent in a country , the but it is the way of new to the Department of the Foreign Affairs .
he has the kind of the years of the years .
he can certainly have a better control the the cost that the the time at the the the cost d?passent fun per - estimates method .
this is the " the absurd that we doubled a bill to Seoul with a d?passement the 22 million . $ and that the the denies the so that the ground , " .
the Leader of the government might be the be responding .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I thank the Honourable Senator the the comments .
the senator Prud ' s
r?pondez the the speech , I would please .
the senator Boudreau :
in a certain the , I share of frustration of the senator to the respect to the fact that the Leader Deputy of the government . the not answered the opportunity to this issue in particular .
however , I acknowledge the the in general , he does so and I , in whom .
in the the concerns of problems specific that the Honourable Senator there , he is clear that we attempting to obtain the most efficiently to our money in the case of all the bills of building , in the fiant the the resources local the the country .
the in presenting by the information that the Honourable Senator has faithful with us , these resources local the summer , the impr?visibles during the enforcement of these projects .
i attempt to obtain the the information , specific to respond to the concerns of the senator .
the senator has indicated the case specific the the ground left vacant .
the not be the hope that is getting civil that tripl? the value over the the the us follow the not . going to regulations the risks and the - be the Canadian official a full .
the senator Stratton :
i believe that the Senate and the Canadian flag of governing explanation .
these d?passements the cost . bashful .
how r?glerez - you that problem ?
how emp?cherez - you that this is occurring the the future ?
the senator Boudreau :
the senator has raised a point is the
i have said that I bring to the senator , r?assurance the the Minister that he is that a review of these problems and that , he is the hope , the the government would taken to the Republic that this is occurring .
the development of the resources human
the level adequate the Canadian provision of the pension of the assurance - job
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , imitant the that the senator Stratton , I wish I also add a preamble to my question .
in the report of the 19 November 99 , the Auditor General talking the the surplus of the pension of the assurance - job .
the rate of premium the the assurance - job . standard by the board of the - job , the MASH the the representatives of the employee , the the employers and the the government , and they must be approved by the cabinet , the Canadian recommendation of the Minister of the Finance and the the Minister of the Human the the resources human .
these levels should be the cover the cost of the program . in sociology respect stable regardless of the undergraduate economic .
he is normal that the " pr?voie a level adequate the Canadian provision , but the bill . the no precision the the the Organization a level adequate .
in a letter sent to the Minister of the Human the the resources human , July the , the Auditor General has pointed that the surplus of the pension of the assurance - job fourth now , the Canadian and 10 , 15 billion . $ that the amount of the pension Justice Martha to satisfy the the requirements of the bill .
the Auditor General has said : " the Minister , the the the the surplus d?passait the level necessary sufficient by the amount :
the government . the state of the the surplus , he is the place . directors and the extent to matters screening the basis of the holding the Canadian provision .
in the answer to the giving the the Auditor General , the government . 500,000 simply the extent the process screening the establishing the rate and not give not the " the suggestion specific , enjoignant the directors of factors screening the basis of the holding the Canadian provision .
honourable senators , the Canadian reseller the March , the surplus of the pension of the assurance - job will higher the 26 billion . $ .
the one time , the the years of the next year financial , he forecast the 30 billion . $ .
the case afforded , what is that amount and how is the the investigator ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , as you the you , he is the one very generous surplus in the pension of the assurance - job .
the comments , the generous surplus is the result of a healthy economy , the one based as the the us know the the time .
a the the consequences of a global blossoming , the motion that the needs are the answer to the Canadian the - job . the damage that they not the armed in the other circumstances , and we are r?jouissons all of this situation .
the following the this growth , the contributions of the - job . was reduced the way nicotine the the years of the past years .
i do I do the numbers in hand , but I can easily the information and you , bring and I am sure that the Honourable Senator know that he is the in a reduction reinstate .
some accommodation that this reduction reinstate not . not express enough to the the it would have the objective .
the board of the assurance - job , the criteria the rate , the report of the Canadian , some of hindsight .
the my opinion , it is showing prudent .
however , we should recognize that the government and the economy . the credit to us to the in attendance of this interesting challenge .
the senator Oliver :
the - be the Honourable Minister has the devanc? the Minister of the Finance and we , he gave the the Estimates economic ?
however , my question about specifically the Canadian provision of the pension .
if it is resident now , 26 billion . $ and that it happens to the years of the next year financial ?30 billion . $ , when the amount be the rather high ?
what would be the Minister of provision get ?
when the employers can the people . expect to benefit of a break ?
the senator Di Nino :
a break real ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the employers can the northern the Canadian and Senior terms , as the the years of the past years .
the the prospect and the extent that the program . the the results focus , the the Senior the summer guaranteed by the government , the
the numbers must be higher the provision ?
i do I give a response exactly the Canadian . the the senator .
it depends the the state of the economy , a time specific .
the other factors can prevent the line of the .
what the the in the , he worth more wide by excesses of prudence .
i do I give the opinion personal the the levels examinations the Canadian provision .
i believe that the " wrong in saying that if the surplus continue to increase , he is the very well , the contemplated the other funding .
the Council of the Treasury
the report of the Auditor General - Conformity licensing of markets , a donation single - Conformity institution . a mechanism the examination required to the market
the Honourable Marjory LeBreton :
honourable senators , in the report of November 99 , the specific chapter 30 entitled : " - market . the professional agreements with a donation single the , the Auditor General , is made on the practice agreed . the government . credit to the market . the professional , a donation single .
the this predatory , the government crunch the the aviation , activists the Canadian competition , and the " the Universit the one provider single .
the Auditor General , is also made on a mechanism called the " gentleman the Aurora the contract to the or PAC .
honourable senators , the aviation are supposed be lenders by way competitive , however , what the " and rules for crops a donation the .
as the article the Auditor General :
... the most of the market that we have verified this year . r?sisteraient not to the examination public .
the numbers are attempting .
the the Auditor General , in the 90 per - and hurting , the the subject of a stamp the summer guaranteed the greatest of the regulations .
honourable senators , the aviation the 25 per $ and the inclusion of the market . provider single future approximativement 1,34 billion . $ the the Estimates , the government .
however , and provided that are absolutely not smoke .
the most , the requirements of the proposed by the licence is seldom considered the manner critical , and the rules the the content of the PAC not have not properly observed .
in addition , one of small number of these markets destiny the the rules highlight the use the one provider single .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , we peers all the , in the circumstances consequently , the licensing of a contract to a donation single not . not the best way of properly .
however , he can be a the the circumstances , and the Honourable Senator the record will the the the motion appropriate .
in the case , this , the Auditor General has given the opinion on some contracts .
the the term of a review enough detailed the the aviation , he has found that the lines guidelines . was not always observed .
i am sure that the Minister of the will be favourable the the comments urgently the the Auditor General , and I anticipate that he , Charge the and Glenney , adjustments .
the senator LeBreton :
honourable senators , when he is the Canadian 1.3 billion . $ or the 90 per , the person questionable to the " approximativement the .
this place . " a new partisans .
honourable senators , the one time , the Auditor General has said :
widening the foot of the rare or not . in the fact that a decision unjustified , the Canadian the Canadian some officials , the Constitution the balance of the values that the government has established to orienter the conduct of the business .
i am front of the , honourable senators , the , the so in the book Red the 1993 , Liberal had promised to reduce the Estimates Yellowknife the the services professional and special , the government has increased significantly the use the Canadian the - traitance .
in the , the the years of the bond This Hour Has22 Minutes of the week , the " the said that the book Red would have win the awards the the Governor General of the category of the Depression the imagination .
try to the preserve its authority and the impact the Canadian who , benefit of the aviation the licence single ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , in the the concerns of White Red , the government will necessary by the Canadian , time appropriate .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
you , received .
the senator Boudreau :
he is the the I will want .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
the , you , received and , honourable senator , you souhaiterez be here .
we reach that we also .
the senator Graham :
there enjoy - you ?
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
i will be .
Halifax - scale .
the senator Boudreau :
we have more of candidates , if I understand , the
this is a leadership that I do I do some of expulsion .
the in return to the question , I believe that the Canadian jugeront the government on the performances general , the " the book Red .
i do think that the the long that dates that is that the the government to give the the aviation the not be not in the public . the Canadian .
the Minister will clearly to the the serious the comments of the Auditor General .
the senator LeBreton :
if the aviation are guaranteed in the public . the public , he not there has no reason for the us not we do know , and the .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the Honourable Senator has expressed clear the concerns .
all the governments recognize that , in some cases , the the aviation be a guaranteed words , by the system of Muslims normal .
the Finance
the report of the Auditor General - Effect problems associated the one of the estimate of the surplus budget
the Honourable Roch Bolduc :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the Auditor General has pointed a gap in the political the the government , the flow to do the the ferries too prudentes by the " the growth economic and the the rate of the .
he carried the this resulted was to the the time , the deficits , it Urban the the market financial that the was the control , but that , in the Canadian surpluses , it brings the government to spend more to the end of the fiscal fiscal .
the the Auditor General , since the so , the fact , the Estimates prudentes , the surplus real will probably higher the the surplus provided :
the the time when it becomes clear , to the end of the fiscal , he is generally too late to influer the the results in reducing the tax and the magazines , the the fact that the increase the the Estimates becomes the way of the effective the clean a surplus to excessive the .
each of the two months Budgets contained the new spending important , the summer imput?es the the fiscal the the budget . was tabled .
honourable senators , the Auditor General said then , the that differs very little of the Estimates , the Canadian year Conducted by the departments the existing the fund whenever , except that he is a non the Canadian million , but the $ the $ the Iraqi the Canadian publicity the the taxpayers the .
the motion ? the not time that the government r?vise this predatory the challenge to engage the the Estimates payments in the Canadian year simply for change the importance of the surplus or the the deficit said ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I have read the Canadian and want to the senator refers .
the Auditor General , setting the the fact that the government , the high the surplus to a reason or a place .
the person , to all the grounds that the " means .
in something . remarks , I am amazed the look at what the the time . This .
i am recall , the Canadian the time when the Auditor General critiquait the government ' s annual because the the one surestim? the revenues , amplifi? exag?r?ment the data , extinction the - esteem the deficits and , by virtue , out of people essentially .
this is that the result of contaminated the governments , and the was a practice dangerous .
the the point of the Canadian the accounting or the Canadian and , the motion ? - be a mistake that the be too prudent when the rules of huge .
in the case , the motion of error the motion of further proper to the other urgent , the " the view , if long , the country .
the senator Bolduc :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government using the same through the Hon. friend , the Minister of the Finance .
the entire clearly , the surplus budget of this year will higher the one announced in February 1998 . At the Canadian keep these funds , why the government . drop the not the tax . the following , knowing that he is a one surplus ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the the term , the remarks by rotation organizations and institutions yours in our country the the return to our economy , a period of several years and the UI probable to this same time .
in general , the rules of the UI to the five years in the
i am the agreement with the Minister of the Finance present to say that , the so , such projections are useful to some for the planning , the period should be very the short to the budg?tisation and the planning the the program Works .
the way justified , a period of two years . " in close to the maximale with the " may work for the budg?tisation and the planning the the program .
i agree however , the so we are too losing and if the surplus is the important that expected , he not be a - be not be used immediately .
the National Defence
the report of the Auditor General - Government in the implementation of the Program of Ethics the Canadian National
the Honourable Michael A . Meighen :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
in his campaign in favour of the bill to the C - 25 , the elimination the Constitution the Act , the National Defence , the the spring of 1998 , the government has said , the Canadian that all the recommendations relating to the inquiry on the events of Somalia had been implemented in the .
yet , in the part of the report of the Canadian National Defence , the Auditor General noted the first , the Program of Ethics the Canadian National not the not yet been fully the in the .
this program was the capstone cornerstone of the recommendations relating to the inquiry on the events of Somalia .
the Leader of the government gave the the the recommendations relating to this inquiry . the not yet been fully implemented in the , and the - the us that when we can we expect to the the provinces , that ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the Minister and the Department work , the huge the the program that the senator has indicated .
the criticism of the Auditor General was rather than the program . operated not as it should get the the .
this is a comment to the the Minister will certainly the the serious in his efforts in the Canadian complete the implementation of the Canadian . program .
the senator Meighen :
honourable senators , I am anxious to see soon released a report . discovered that the the speech , and the application of the program .
the Heritage
the delay in the construction of the new Museum of the war - Government protection of the tr?sors national
the Honourable Norman K . Atkins :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
yesterday , I , I asked if the government held up to the construction of a new Museum of the war .
the government aware of the the Canadian cod Vimy , the motion full the craquer , systemic also the merged the fuient and the one ventilation and the one conditionnement the air of Kenneth quality , the the highlights the declining , the 12 per criterion the art , the some of the value ?
i would recommend however , and that the all the honourable , the kind visit the London Vimy .
that the the government to ensure the the the the tr?sors national that lawyers in uncertainty that he wants to fund or not a new Museum Canadian of the war ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I wish to ensure personally to the senator , the prior to the Canadian and the Canadian the Senate , the the years of the new year , I will visited the house Vimy .
the question that there , Senator is seriously .
as it . Human , I do the knowledge not a " is the .
however , I take some information and I visiterai personally the site .
the new Museum of the war - Government nature of the funding private
the Honourable David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , my question to a comment that the Leader of the government to the Senate . the last the one of analogue .
he is a the Canadian need to collect the the fund the Canadian the area private to build the new Museum Canadian of the war .
the ones funding private the Minister spoke - the ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I was referred to the possibility of abolishing a campaign the funding private the reason the Canadian would invited to participate .
the senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , this crop will it lanc?e by the Liberal Party of the Canada , by the government . the Canada , by the former Veterans or , the - be , by the the people who have sold the Canadian War , as Winchester and Jeep ?
the Minister could be the be the onus how the d?roulera this crop .
i find shame that we seeing the date , I , this issue .
i know that the honourable the in the not hit no shame when he is a the matter of the Canadian . such .
that the us we do the coming , the motion that we do we not the money for building a new Museum of the war and , yet , we spend the the money for the other things , the claim million . $ to the the aviation guaranteed the Canadian and Liberal in the the country .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , if I understand , the the content of some evidence of the question of the senator . was not . " the serious .
we have a distinguished Canadian and former veteran , the honorableBarney Barney , and the committee , the are directly engaged in the bill .
i suppose that he going inevitably the all the efforts to be efforts to the the Canadian businessmen financially the bill .
the senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , when the Canadian wonder Mr. Barney how the money the government . the Canada . is committed to Recommendation , the their say that ?
the senator Boudreau :
the Senate . the Senate
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , the time Allocation for the period of the issues . the time .
the leave is the it leave of pursuing , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
the Chair . express to ask if the honourable souhaitaient extend the period of the issues .
i believe that we should be to lend the not . in reaching the extension the 1998 .
we should limit the period of the issues of the " is that he be possible . red the Chair . 15 at 1:30 , as we wish to do the 1998 , the time to the the committee so continue their autonomy the .
answer regarding the one issue orale
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I have the answer to a question that the Honourable Senator Sparrow the question to the Senate . 16 November 99 , the the subject of the possibility of protecting more the people , the violence .
the justice
the possibility of protecting more the people , the violence
( response to a question raised by the honorableHerbert O . Sparrow the 16 November 99 )
some provinces , concerned , the Polish with China , older .
this kind of behaviour criminal is critical and Means the Canadian fear , the citizens , particularly to the people seniors .
the press , the the recent reported the the Somalia the Vancouver , in British - British , the attention of the Act , such actions .
the the Centre international to the prevention of the youth ( CIPC ) , located the Montreal , the flight with China , older the the manner . the effraction the home with flight qualified , the motion ? " - that flight the foreign with threat or use of violence or the two years , perp?tration the the act criminal , or , with use of a weapon attacking or the one Nordic the weapon .
the kind actions have the time , and the home they , the objective of these actions the Canadian steal the the foreign , the the money and the the Controlled uniform .
in a report of 1996 on the statistics officers , the Canada , the Centre Canadian of the statistics legal ( CCSJ ) , the fact , the rate of cancer . the Polish with China , older .
the CCSJ publie the the reports on the great trends the Canadian law criminal .
the Polish qualified the decreased in 1998 , the second year cons?cutive , with a decline of per cent , the effractions the decreased the forecasts per and the actions criminals violent , the plans per to the sixth annual cons?cutive .
the Canadian the meeting of the subamendment , ministers federal , provincial and territorial officials of the justice , along and 26 February 1998 , he has been agreement that the question of the flight with China , older would referred to the officials officials to the members direction to the subject of the potential of the , respecting or other .
a document to the subject is the preparation .
the Centre national the Canadian prevention of the spot the LAVs the the CIPC a study on the average of reducing and the prevention effectively the cambriolage the comparative and the flight with China , older , in the the degree and the magnitude of the - the will be ?valu?s , the the plans national and international , and will be discussed the factors of risk and the best actions of passing .
this document will help to develop the the strategies not respecting the prevention , the Canadian flight with China , older .
the the words of the provisions current the the Code offence , a condemnation to fly qualified or flight with effraction affects a worthwhile maximale the Throne the perp?tuit? .
a moment only reflects the fact that the Parliament as the the actions criminals are very serious .
if the flight qualified is committed with a weapon to fire , a worthwhile detention of Dave the four years . removal .
the the judges recent dealing the flight with China , older reflect the principles and the objectives of the determination of the only .
the the Throne . unclear the summer prononc?es .
in R . R Matwiy ( 1996 ) , 105 C . C . C . ( 3e ) discovered , the the contrevenant the mistake a fraction with China , older , the Court of Appeal of the Alberta , non that the actions criminals the Criminal rights , the right to the citizens . the safety of their home and the Canadian protection against the intrusions be a dozen with the most of serious .
the courts . reminded that the Court Supreme the the Canada , the acknowledged the character inviolable the the home , and that this inviolabilit? was the one of the principles of the way started been part .
some judgments of the Alberta , prepared to the only detention to the flight with China , older be a the eight years of Dave and that this act criminal sort of only detention the toughest that the flight to coast army the one bank or the one institution trade .
a judgment recent the Canadian Court Supreme the Canadian British - British , R . R Bernier , the resulting the quatorze years of prison a contrevenant the the part of a intrusion in a home .
the Krever Bouck motive his decision in saying that the the reappear the scourge of the reader the domiciles , the Court of Appeal of the British - British done a worthwhile the Throne variant the four the nine years when the coming by effraction was rising the one flight qualified but that the magnitude of the situation insisted now that the Court . precludes the Canadian only order penalty in the kind of -
on business orders
the Act , and the implementation of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
second reading
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Stollery , seconded by the Honourable Senator Hays , seconded the Canadian second reading of the bill to the C - 4 , the fact the in the Canadian the Agreement agreement between the government . the Canada , the governments of the members of the Agency spatiale European , the government . the Japan , the government . the Federation of Russia and the government . the United - United the North the Canadian cooperation respecting the Canadian Station spatiale international civil and retired the the changes related to the other Acts .
the Honourable M. Kelly :
honourable senators , I am pleased to speak today , the the bill to the C - 4 .
however , I wish to the first congratulate the senator Stollery the Hon. Finance the the bill to the , the was clear and the quality .
the bill to the C - 4 is necessary , because he provide the the Canada . doing devise the the the need to meet its obligations to the words of the Agreement on the cooperation respecting the Canadian Station spatiale international civil .
if I have the right , the United - United the convention the agreement , April 1998 . - Japan the the convention in November 1998 . - Germany and the Norway the people also monitor .
the process of ratifying is the years , the Canada , the the U - Parliamentary and the Canadian and country European , and the " the motion set the 29 January 2000 as valid target to the Kyoto full of the agreement .
he not there has the in Russia , the d?chir? by the the problems political and economic internal , the Canadian ratification not . not imminente to the moment .
as every the record , in our system , the conclusion , M international is the prerogative of the Crown .
the approval of the Parliament . is not necessary to the agreement proprement that the however , it is necessary to harmonize some aspects of the legislation Canadian with the agreement .
the government . the fact that he is a the one would international the the Canadian and effect resulting to the Canada , the plan economic and the the areas of the research and the Canadian Technology and the government . the fact that the agreement covers the number aspects to the date inexplor?s , I think that the would have to the the Parliament , the time to examine the bill to the and the agreement , the people impact .
i do and I hope that these issues will candidates carefully in committee , the the least , I hope that they will undergo the facts that the the other place .
what the the in the , I believe that is the one bill to the the us should approve the principle with enthusiasm .
this bill to the motion be to the the Canada can play its role of OAS in the one of the most grandioses the scientific the the history , the knowledge of Station spatiale international civil .
honourable senators , the participation Canadian , the publisher spatiale not a course , 2.5 per - the cost total , the the estimates , but our task is the specific the Biohazard the face Bethune , or SEM , the whalers a vital the one of capital .
the question , the the SEM used to the components of the publisher spatiale and the in the the face during the the life to the
the SEM is designated the equipment and the facilities . anticipating as the ship the Canadian Record that the land .
among the evidence to displace the Canadian Record , the fact , the Canadian t?l?manipulation the Canadian Record spatiale , the motion of managed spatial sophistiqu? , and the system of repair Bethune .
the Canada provide the the parenting the basis special , the motion of robot the two gave .
the Canadarm and the system of t?l?manipulation the Canadian Record purposes all the two to the components and the the face of the publisher spatiale during the the life to increase the 10 years .
the facilities the land explanations by the Canada starts a complex the operations of the SEM located the the Senate Main the the Agency spatiale Canadian , St. - Hubert , the the Quebec .
the Agency spatiale the summer a significant catalyst to the contribution of the Canada , the industry .
the industry spatiale the the Canada is absolutely a rouage important to the economy Canadian .
as the senator Stollery the the fact out , it is the the country . income of the Canadian a billion . $ , the per cent feel the the export .
it is 5 per jobs in the Canadian 250 business of a slip the the other . the country .
this is a industry in the the area private Canadian . played a role of the plan .
the area private proceeds about a year , $ by the in R - D related to the the bills spatiaux .
the rules that the participation of the Canada , the bill to Record spatiale fees 1.4 billion . $ and produces the the Canada . the six billion . $ and 1970 $ years , and the Employment .
the publisher spatiale we will the make the the progress in the Telecommunications , particularly in the Telecommunications , son , the are so important to the Canada . the Canadian our great sadness geographical and the our many communities turning .
the publisher spatiale will the make palliative the technical , well , the land , a private the two billion . $ by the the motion in full expansion and the the Canada . " have as editor of leadership by the Radarsat .
in spite of the importance of the industry spatiale to the economy Canadian , particularly to the growth of the economy . the next generation , the funding government . the Agency spatiale Canadian is spent the 378 million . $ the 1993 , 1994 , 350 million this year .
i must say , honourable senators , the I hope that this is the not a sign the - coureur the one scenario which is doing the time , time .
we have the effect trend the agreements of the agreements , the us get the Canadian and the very important , the deficit sponsors the contribution that we had accepted the remuneration to the country .
i hope that is not . not the the the existence .
i have said , earlier , this initiative justly , the my opinion , our support Stan. .
i do say that this only in the Canadian and benefits economic , short term , but to many other grounds .
the Station spatiale international not the no role military direct .
the example , it is able to serve the free of the satellites or the the missiles .
it redistribute that it used only to the the purpose harshness .
he is the particular support and encourage the participation of the Russian the the bill .
the experience Russian , with the publisher spatiale MIR , a the tremendous benefits to the bill .
the module the service Svezda , launched the October by the agency aerospace Russian , used to first unequal the habitation and the centre of control of the publisher to the the arrival of the module USS Destiny , the the beginning of the year next .
the fus?es russes Proton and Soyouz are also the the evidence important to the bill .
the Parliament Russian . the not yet commonly the process cheered the Kyoto the the agreement , but I believe that the Canadian holdings Russian the fact , provided and the prospect .
the one point of the person - be a little more vibrant , I say that the participation of the Canada , it . the Canadian funds the publisher to lead the the experience scientific and technical .
in order to the article 21 , the agreement , the results of all the Senate . R Higher by each of the partners privatization his companies spark .
the the the Canada coming the best party could the this opportunity to previous , the Agency spatiale Canadian . the Act up a program , microgravit? to the the researchers Canadian diversifying the the experience in the philosophy and the practice of experience and the the use of equipment spatial .
the program , microgravit? includes the Canadian and the to the formation and the implementation of the point of the equipment to the the practice of the Canadian research in the publisher spatiale .
the result , the Canada will fresher the one ability industrial and the research , he will the use of full ability scientific and the research , the publisher spatiale .
finally , honourable senators , he is the 40,000 years , a young the American we called the the challenge of coastal the new the Canadian the space .
when he the the fact , the world vivait in the spectre of the war cold , in the fear Increase that the Competition of the two superpuissances contradiction by road to a conflagration nuclear .
the chairman Kennedy not saw in the leadership , the space that a race to the WTO the one superpuissance the the giving a supremacy economic , scientific , military and producer by the " the other .
what come to have travelled !
the the years of a century , the known the first balbutiements the the corrective , we have forwarded a man on the Lune .
we have forwarded to the sondes in the confins the the space .
we placerons soon a microphone the us will the suggested to the first time , sons any of the planet Mars .
we do we are the the doors of a new border , as the said , the Kennedy .
we have now served this land and we are doing the benefit of the many benefits that he Bradlee .
however , he is the the first , I will the the part of a bill as the Canadian the Station spatiale international and the entire a series of M international , the " the space , our most of the site not the way of territorial and the private the the objectives scientific and the learning to the Universit the entire the betterment .
we happen the space not . with the the instruments of War , but , with the the instruments of peace .
honourable senators , drove the this spirit , I would please the well front to the bill to the C - 4 .
i will look the part of the time to the study in committee and the the reading of the third reading , if necessary .
the Hon. the Speaker :
if no other honourable senator . I take the honourable , I remind the the the summer proposed by the Honourable Senator Hays , seconded by the Honourable Senator Moore , the the bill to the report of the Canadian a second reading .
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed and the bill to the motion read a second time . )
referred to the committee
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . third time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Hays , the bill to the motion referred to the committee on the Canadian and business foreign . )
the Act , the Royal Assent
second reading of Motion to vote , Point the the Order - Adjourned the the debate in the armistice the Canadian decision of the Speaker
the Order of the Order Order :
the Honourable Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I wish to some comments to the subject of the bill to the S - 7 .
i was reached the 9 June 1988 the Hon. previous , the bill to the S - 15 , the was identical .
honourable senators , I believe in the Constitution of the Canada , in the monarchy constitutional , in his institutions and the Queen Majesty , the Queen ElizabethII.
the my arrival the the Senate , I have sworn oath of allegiance the Queen Majesty .
he is the my duty , the government . the Place , the course , the and interests of Her Majesty the so that third part integral the the Parliament of the Canada .
the Act constitutional the 1867 , section 17 , states :
he is a , for the Canada , a parliament the will composed of the Queen , the one house high called the Senate , and the Canadian House of the House .
honourable senators , I thank the Honourable Senator Lynch - Staunton , the fishing the meeting of the debate , falls to the , the so , after the results of the plebiscite australien the Canadian monarchy .
the 6 November 99 , the Australiens the vote by 55p. per , 45 the teachers the Queen Elizabeth II to monarque .
the bill to the S - 7 the Act , prerogative Royal the Queen Majesty the the licensing of the Royal Assent to the bills of the bills , the Senate and the House of the House .
the subject of the bill to the motion of Royal Assent the giving force of the " and the Canadian law respecting .
the bill to the S - 7 questions . problem constitutional important and none .
how the Royal Assent , the instrument the the giving force of the " a bill to the , the - it is the same to the subject of a bill to the the , a time , the will receive the Royal Assent to have force of the ?
honourable senators , the prerogative Royal is the touchstone of the government by the executive and it makes possible the fact that the government , lies .
the prerogative Royal is the essential that the Statut the Westminster the 1931 stated that the amendment to the U - Parliamentary the Canadian succumb to the Throne or the the CHST Alaska or the the skin be assured the necessity of the parliaments the the United the the Commonwealth , the exception of the Canada .
the Statut the Westminster said , the said :
whereas the the appropriate , since the Arts is the symbol of the free association of all the members of the Commonwealth British and that they are represented by a common happening in the - the , the seat in Prince that would constitute the their situation constitutional the requirement of earning now , amending the the rules of cessation the the Throne and the introduction of the skin Commanding the the necessity of the parlements the the dominions as the one of the Parliament of the U - Parliamentary ;
honourable senators , the media have brought in September the act of the Governor General racing , Mr. Rom?o LeBlanc , respecting the the armoiries the the chairman of King , the lion and the language of the lion .
the readership of the U.S. Financial should know , made on the pr?tendues armoiries the the chairman of King .
the armoiries the question . the not to the armoiries official the achievements Rom?o LeBlanc , as the us the the said , but the armoiries augmented used to the Canada , commonly - and the wrong , appel?es the armoiries the the Canada .
the same , these armoiries not have not be appel?es armoiries the the chairman of King because the provinces are part of the armoiries the Queen Majesty the the Opposition the the Canada , as the the Fifth the Recognition the 1921 .
eligible the one another Governor General , the order to pin Alaska the the board of the Governor General , Mr. Meyer the actions said :
the the years of the mandate of Gouverneure general , Dr. Jeanne Sauv? the Oberon the paper to Swiss , the plats and the assiettes the Rideau Hall , and the " and gu?rites the Canadian residence the the Governor General , the Canadian corporation , was used for the beginning of the Confederation .
it . the occurrence by the the the laquais d?crivirent as the " lion chairman of Coll the , the motion ? " - that the embl?me the fact , the Canadian the dissatisfaction Mr. LeBlanc .
some say that is the one hour absolute and a annoyance to the House of the House .
the ministers find simply too disruption of the attending .
this is much too disruption to the Prime Minister , then , the ministers , then , the House , then , for the judges of the Court Supreme the the Canada .
fumisterie !
the honourable senators , however , meetings faithfully the Canadian Assent Royal in this room , the the Senate , the House of the Royal Assent .
honourable senators , I disagree those who argue that the Royal Assent is a stamp formality .
they will trompent .
they assertion false or erron?e not be , the strength of r?p?titions , become true or fair .
Benjamin Disraeli , the the summer the Minister of the U - Parliamentary the Canadian reseller the the century century , the outset in the book the 1852 , 1899 George Bentinck :
the Political Biography , the real force and the real sense of the Royal Assent by the Queen .
he wrote :
in the the division the Canadian Parliament , the decision is final , and therefore sollicit?e the last , the opinion of the sovereign remains open and the compromised to the the the the necessity of the two Houses that was given the
this veto the the monarque English . is not only the one formula vacuum .
he not . not difficult to imagine the case where the fiscal , seconded by the offer the one people loyalist , the defeat a practice anticonstitutionnel and a parliament corrompu .
honourable senators , the motion of real the Constitution of the Royal Assent in our monarchy constitutional based on the responsibility initiated .
the Royal Assent is that step Parliamentary and the Canadian holdings reading in the country process legislative Parliamentary the the three of Community the Parliament , Subcommittee to train the Parliament of the Canada in the part of the governing the legislation , the Canadian changing the government in law .
the Royal Assent is that act quintessenciel in our system of the spark responsible the delinkage the presence of the Queen the the Parliament , the point turning in the process of the Canadian and law , the Parliament . - Royal Assent . is not a simple formality .
this is a procedure essential .
this is the act the most visible the Canadian Queen of the Canada , the , since the Confederation , the fact , the Senate to the good reasons Constitutional .
the honourable senators protect the visibilit? the the role real the Canadian Queen in the Parliament of the Canada and our Constitution .
the Clerk of the House of the House of the subamendment , Clerk of the parliaments .
the huissi?re the the Usher darkness is the messag?re personal the Canadian Queen the role that role of the Queen and the two Houses to allow the Canadian Queen of the population of the part parliamentarians .
the part Constitutional the the Parliament of the Canada . the be accomplies that the the Senate .
the the Parliament , together here for the speech , the Throne , the " Gang before the speech , the sovereign .
the in 1947 about the the Governor General of the Canada was his offices in the Victoria the the East .
the first recently , the Governor General just here , the the Senate , for proroger the Parliament and dissoudre the Houses - the the part parliamentarians important , the exer?aient the way visible to the the the , for the the grounds administrative , the prorogation and the disbanding the position , private , the Canadian residence official of the Governor General , far the the most of the public , the the knowledge and the the understanding .
the people . " no position , because the " and the feelings , the conditions language , hemp and religions political , the Canadian Position of the monarque the so that pivot is shortened .
the convenience administrative not . not a prohibited valid to shipping the the practical Constitutional essential .
the former prime minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau the outset the strategy nationalist at the the Quebec " to spell underhanded the , " to ?tapisme the , a draft invented by the late the Minister separatist the the Quebec , Ren? L?vesque .
they want this or such as now , such a power then , and early or later , the Qu?becois finiront by the the people are gouvern?s more , Quebec , by Ottawa and they will then the great curling , elongated the " and bill .
we in doing so with the monarchy the the Canada ; we supprimons a reference in the name of a department , we do away a successor here or that , we renon?ons the so , such tradition , and the following .
honourable senators , the senator Lynch - Staunton , the the change that he moved the changes to the Royal Assent is to the one bill to the .
he has reason .
a bill to the the right to amend the way , fundamental the Order constitutional the the Queen and the the Senate to the Canada .
the senator , the Constitution the prerogative Royal the Queen Majesty the the the the policy , the Royal Assent given to the bills of the .
this change requested a restriction .
the bill to the S - 7 limit the fiscal the Canadian prerogative Royal in the Canadian Assent Royal and , Robillard , limits the charter of the Senate .
a change the Canadian prerogative Royal the this magnitude not be a court that the Canadian , the one bill to the , in the respect to the practice constitutional , the the right and the the automotive parliamentarians .
the the subject of the consent Alaska , Beauchesne , said , the rule 726.1 the Canadian sixth edition :
honourable senators , the motion of the Canadian the ?tapisme the country monarchy .
honourable senators , in the the the policy , the reading of the deliberations surrounding the consent Alaska , lecommentaire 726 ( 2 ) the precincts that section :
the use to the the consent Alaska the LG as the pre - the debate .
the values makes nulles and the creative the deliberations identify the view of the adoption of the bill to the .
the comments of the consent Alaska and the Canadian second reading , the comment 727 ( 1 ) the precincts that section :
the consent of the Crown is vital each time that he is a the issues Republic of the the prerogatives .
the the the consent that the LG the not any province reading of the deliberations heading the adoption clear the the bill to the , the use of the House if the the the Senate in the Canadian Presented and the motion of second reading .
honourable senators , the councillors of Her Majesty , the ministers , the conseilleurs private , unnecessary under the the rules determined , the , constitutionnellement issue , as to obtain the consent Alaska .
the result , the Canadian the study of a bill to the issues . prerogatives augmented , he is the first , the word that they can mean the consent Alaska .
however , for a simple Parliamentary , the situation is very different .
the one solution Parliamentary the one party , Opposition , the situation is also interesting .
if the bill to the Canadian . Parliamentary the one party , Opposition receives the support of the government , the situation would strange the the plan constitutional , because of ministers of Her Majesty , the distinguished counsel , in Beijing l?gislativement and parlementairement the preserve and the defence the prerogatives of Her Majesty , vision , calling the prerogatives the , made their parties their authority , and the and their pr??minence served .
this situation risquerait the tools a crisis constitutional .
however , I emphasize here on the individual parliamentarians and the Canadian the in the people could , with their bills of the , change the prerogatives augmented .
honourable senators , the communication the the right to obtain the consent Alaska the Queen Majesty the summer belief in the fourth report of the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules , the the summer the " the Senate 6 November 1985 .
i believe that is the was then chaired by the senator Gildas Molgat .
the third recommendation of the report said , the Canadian page 1469 :
that the the representatives of the Senate delighted to the representatives of the House of the House of assisted a resolution in the Canadian the preparation of a question , the be introduced jointly by the two Houses the Governor General of Governor General of advisable the well front approve some changes to the ceremony the Canadian Assent Royal previously in the report .
the words key are the question to the " the House of the front approve the .
all the suggestions the people authority administration , the House of order to consent Alaska in the case of the bill to the the existence the prerogatives augmented the Canadian Queen , before the the not be adopted in this chamber .
honourable senators , in the the the policy , the Government of the individual parliamentarians and the the requirement that they have shown the House of the subject of the Canadian law similar , Alpheus Todd , in the book have cited , the actions :
this means that the product before the introduction of the bill to the .
but when a bill to the Canadian public public , does the this portrayal is supposed be introduced by a simple Parliamentary , and the in order to the power to ministers , the House should be addressed the Canadian Crown to the authority to leave of that the the subject , before the introduction proposed legislation . the ; -
the no time , not the said how he continued up to ask and to the consent Alaska the Queen Majesty , provided pre vital to the the Senate at the order . C - the .
the senator Lynch - Staunton has the duty of the one question to Her Majesty the Queen to the authority to loans to the the us considering the bill to the .
this is the this motion of this question that the debate public and Parliamentary the ensuivra .
motion of amendment
the Honourable Anne C . Cools :
section that , honourable senators , I wish to a subamendment , the motion .
i move :
that the bill to the S - 7 . the not now read a second time , but rather when the mover remplira the condition exig?e by the bill to the Parliament before the adoption by the Parliament of a bill to the Canadian government Parliamentary amend the prerogative Royal , this requirement preliminary the Canadian partisans the the consent Alaska the Queen Majesty the the study by the Parliament of the interests in the bill to the S - 7 , the proposed the limit and the Constitution the formalit?s the licensing of the Royal Assent by Her Majesty the the Canada , and the the same look the Constitution the charter of the Senate .
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , I wish to the " grain a question and a comment , the Canadian the speech , her the senator Cools .
in the part of the remarks , it has used the word " laquais the in Yiddish the the staff of the comparative or the the board of the Governor General .
the senator Cools :
i have heard the event ?
i do I have no , the purpose .
the senator Corbin :
you the right . " .
our accustomed parliamentarians we " the make the the remarks scriptures the Canadian Human the Canadian Queen or the the Governor General .
i am sure that this is spread also to the staff of the House and the one of the Governor General .
i am also sure that the words of her the senator Cools the brief his wife .
this is the not to me to the council that he is inconvenant the use of such terms , but it is very clear in the spirit of all .
i am asking if the senator Cools would withdraw his words .
i point of the in the same spirit of the smaller we oppose the the use of the term for describe the staff of the Senate .
i do believe that the us should describe the Canadian the the staff of the comparative the the Governor General .
the senator Cools :
honourable senators , I thank the senator Corbin , his question .
i draw the the the wrong and that I do I do that is that he I have the .
i wish to say clear to the the world . the I am satisfied the most of partisan that the monarque and the Governor General has conversation the the Senate .
i wish to the extent that these comments . the not the rereading .
the senator Stratton :
is the the the honourable we m?prisez ?
the senator Cools :
if you want to the honourable , not you g?nez , not hear
these comments . the not the rereading .
i the said , the are the comments of the chairman of the Division of the British - British and the the Yukon . the Corporation h?raldique the the Canada , Mr. Rean Meyer .
i have read the the honourable a letter Mr. Meyer the column , the 8 September 1998 , the the U.S. Financial .
if the senator Corbin , I , I , fournirai with pleasure , copy of this section to the the so , to the plight that these comments . the not the rereading , but those of the author of the letter .
i wish to the extent that I am so caring the the board of the Governor General , I love the the Governor General come here each time that a Royal Assent . " .
my comments improve today , the occasional the Gouverneurs worry the the Canada , intends their highways powers in the the Ontario , the Queen Majesty .
this bill to the the the blind as it has the detractors .
the " said that many former Gouverneurs worry not have not go to some provisions of the bill to the .
i thank the the senator Lynch - Staunton , the terrorist the debate because of Royal Assent . the cordial the the Senate .
when I have been appointed by the I have the the Place of the loyal to Her Majesty and I jure the ambulance the the be .
this is exactly what the I am in tain the make .
the senator Corbin :
honourable senators , for back on the the I have said , the senator Cools , he not be not the it is wrong on my attitude .
it has been many of sympathy the I , support the point of the .
however , we must be brought to the the us say .
he is out that , in the other place , the Chair Justice that the not be not to farmers . the the motion banned the make directly .
when the true , letter or a section of The the Canadian pen the one person who is the not a commission in the debate , the comments becoming those of the unveiling .
the the the soitM. Meyer the the fact wrote , the motion of Senator Cools the the prof?r? the word " the Senate .
the senator Cools the in thinking that the it is , but I believe that this is requested that the the limitations .
i believe that the that rabaisse the level of the debate .
the senator Cools :
use the the Rules
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I point of order .
i ask the Canadian Chair of the in suggesting that motion that he hopeful then petition .
he not there has nothing in the bill to the the existence the prerogative Royal or the Royal Assent .
the bill to the proposed simply that the ceremony traditional , the not . not subscribed by a bill , the pr?serv?e and , in turn of the possibility , the the licensing of the Royal Assent . contained in the way of a message .
the prerogative of Her Majesty , the Royal Assent , third of constituante the the Parliament , demeurerait exactly the same .
the bill to the not the the introduction of accounting different the charter the Royal Assent , the the one is the the us produced have the the least two , by the .
this motion will the way that the bill to the .
it affects a point of the motion no not raised in the bill to the , the knowledge of Her Royal .
the result , I ask the Governor Hon. the Speaker of the seat petition .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I finish move the adjournment of the debate .
however , the senator Lynch - Staunton the one ' and I do know that the the appropriate to adjourn the debate in the benchmarks circumstances .
if the person the make , then I move the adjournment .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the the invoqu? the Rules .
the practice usual , the case require the the Speaker based the other senators , either the Canadian . the " the Rules .
when the Speaker is the opinion that the Senate . m enough to information , he can the courts or to the question . little .
i entendrai . the other senators , wish to the the subject of the use the the Rules .
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I am the agreement with the use the the Rules and the senator Lynch - Staunton .
the bill to the the us are before the and that I support , lots of a practice of this chamber and not move that the most .
the Governor General , and the result of Queen , the deficit a way of Supplementary properly the Royal Assent to a bill to the .
the present Bill , the issue of the process , " to bestow the Royal Assent .
the my interpretation , this bill to the Privacy no , prerogative .
the objective of the bill to the motion of the end to a ceremony the one of the this chamber , the United the Governor General or the House of the House of the House . was here .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
our proceedings conventions a series of protection .
he is to a notice of the the honourable senators know , the displaced what proposal will rise .
the condition pre penalty to the freedom of the legislative or the one member of the one would the the one or the other place . the Parliament must be explicitly meeting in the Rules .
no presumption not bilingual the the obstacles that the honourable should be the dark before the power to a motion .
the motion of amendment to us are before the clear that the mover of the bill to the S - 7 should , before the present its legislation . the , e the matters conditions .
i believe that is the that the point crucial the the point of the Rules the " the Speaker .
we must take great due to preserve the freedom , is multitude the all the honourable senators , the not be not be entrav?s by the the conditions other that the the people were determined to facilitate the good practice of our work .
the condition , is put this , the the wording direct the the amendment , moved a form of censorship , in the meaning that it is a so , the pre which , Senator should be put forward to the present a motion .
the article 2 , the Rules , "
the bill to the " : a bill to the Canadian the Parliament , the the Senate private or public .
the extent does the this definition , and the not there has nothing to other in the Rules and the motion of amendment that confronted , the my humble opinion .
the senator Cools :
honourable senators , I wish to the
the subsequent . the the I have said , I ask that , for the study of the point of the Rules , the my remarks , the point that I have raised and the Statutory that I have confined that the in suggesting by Your Honour .
the Canadian responding to the senator Lynch - Staunton , I wish to do out that the aspect I would petition .
the same , he not the not known explain why the motion is , the the , irregularly .
i d?conseille the the honourable senators , Bryden the Rules in the hope the Republic of debate . the issues important .
i do pretend not the the Senate . the the senator Lynch - Staunton did or the the intent of the .
however , if the senator Lynch - Staunton there is changing , he is the Hon. duty , I believe , the us explain his gentlemanly and the context of precedents and the authorities the countries , the overlapping .
the following the the I have heard and the the the senator Lynch - Staunton has said , he not the the not the in the case , this .
my subamendment is a .
i do about this or the the content or the the well - based on the bill to the in itself , contrary to the the the fact , Senator Carstairs .
the senator Carstairs support the bill to the and discutait . the Hon. content and the Hon. the - based .
the the moment , we are before the one point of the Rules .
the honourable senators , the as His Honour , not have not , the the us not need not we in order to the Speaker of the Senate to reply the issues relating to the Constitution and the the right constitutional .
these issues must be settled by the whole of the Senate .
my subamendment is not unequivocal .
i , I detailed copy of the senator Lynch - Staunton .
i do I do that the the need to impose the the limits .
honourable senators , with the use the the Rules , he not to a not the basis , the senator Lynch - Staunton has the right to do this is it is the
this is the need determine , the motion , the senator Lynch - Staunton audit the one way , is consistent the Canadian Constitution of this place , the Canadian Constitution of our country , the the legislation . our country and the the public . Her Majesty the Queen .
we have discussed substantially the the issues .
i will read a the the statements the most fearlessly have made on this issue .
this statement . was made to the House of the Lords , the 30 March 1911 , by Lord Lansdowne .
the honourable senators , remember the - be the the vice the the time , debate key .
i remember the the honourable senators , he is the in the the U - Parliamentary , the the time , a problem of the fact , the amendment of the powers of the Lords and the Queen Majesty the the licensing of the Royal Assent to the bills of the bills , the House of the House .
this was a debate . important , honourable senators , and I am happy attendue the the the the senator Lynch - Staunton , some precedents and information historic .
the the moment , I will provide Lord Lansdowne .
he has said : "
the country , the the motion would bring rights , the right to the Parliament , the feasibility , in the one or the other . the Houses , a bill to the the the Canadian and effect on the prerogatives of the Crown , it , the the necessity of the Crown .
honourable senators , the consent Alaska equivalent to the necessity pre .
he : "
i think that one . the contestera .
we concluons , the Canadian , these questions , the same if this penalty the be obtenue the not any province reading , the Orders normal is the the information to the tabling of the bill to the .
the relative that I have used in my speech previous shows clear that he has been agreement that the consent Alaska should be from the the tabling of the bill to the .
all the suggestions by Michelle targeted that he can be from the part of the the ministers unnecessary in the part of their responsibilities , the one reading designated .
he not the not the question that is debatable the article been the the years .
the senator Lynch - Staunton . we , not the Canadian what the the manner satisfy the Canadian Assent Royal .
the person try to agencer the things . any how the however , the fact is that the government or any bill to the parliamentary proposing the Constitution the prerogative Royal the Queen Majesty must the first obtain the consent , the the motion of the way of the the " the Royal must be granted to the displaced the .
this used , honourable senators , the years , in a place in the Canadian prerogative Royal , the knowledge of initiatives financial the Canadian Crown .
in the case of the recommendation Royal , the motion . difficult .
it is expected to the GST 53 and 54 of the Act constitutional the 1867 .
this recommendation is being made to the House of the House of the tabling of the bill to the .
as the the consent Alaska , he can be awarded the late .
the important how the vibrancy the question , honourable senators , the fact is that one . " person of the original and credible that the person to a discussion to the Senate to the subject of the future of the powers of Her Majesty respect to the Royal Assent . look the first , Governor General or Majesty Majesty the Queen it is the .
this is precisely because the this issue . was n?glig?e and ?cart?e these past years , I have the this amendment to the motion of second reading , to the one debate so that step the Canadian . the knowledge , the consent Alaska is necessary .
he I would be the need more than the inadequate outlive the the senator Carstairs , the the senator Lynch - Staunton .
i have the the least set the primacy and the facts historic and I can give the many of the invisible if the debate . She .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the the Order , the the honourable senators ,
senator Cools , I would have inquire because the I have had the impression that you vouliez to the the TAGS the the bill to the and not the the point of the Rules .
there has the Canadian and senators , wish to the the point of the Rules ?
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
the not one . " the Royal Assent .
this is the chamber . we are paying that the
he is a the one requirement constitutional that we refer .
the bill to the proposed simply the WTO the sincerity the Royal Assent differently , the form at the surtax .
the result , I believe that all the grounds of the motion . Determination and that is the the the should declare the Chair .
the Hon. the Speaker :
there has the Canadian and honourable senators , either speak on the point of the Rules ?
if the I take the question . little .
( adjournment of the debate in uncertainty the decision of the Speaker . )
business legal and Constitutional
leave to the committee , sitting , the time that the Senate
leave having been granted , the " and motions :
the Honourable Lorna Milne , pursuant to the moved 25 November 99 , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the power to sit adjourn at 1:30 the 1998 1 December 1998 , the so , the Senate to the time , that , and that the application duparagraphe 95 ( 4 ) the the Rules the sitting , this regard .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I do repeat not the the I have said , the one time here .
if I am else to the kind of Motion , the not . not the I wish blame the chairs of the committee .
in the , I have plains because the people are the the actions with a schedule the the strength to sit in relation thereto 30 , Wednesdays .
he is the four committees in this situation , the one of the business foreign , the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade , and the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional .
i do I do that the the , the Canadian and committees , are less important that the other , but it . , some of the committee , the assets .
some of their the collection a schedule the the strength to sit in relation thereto 30 , knowing very well , he is out , the one time recently that we used - the significance of 15 at 1:30 . We are the backbone time to the 17 at ou18 at the
the result , these chairs be to time to the Senate . leave of sitting , the time that the Senate .
why not be the " no initially the schedule of the committee and the U the the schedule of the Senate to the place . to the the Senate . K the schedule the one of the committee ?
this is also told that this .
i understand the senator Milne .
the senator Kolber the possible to ask the same leave , and I understand why .
this is our fault because the us we agreed . forth the not operating not , the
we should satisfy our schedule here and decide that , the goodwill , we l?verons the Chair . 15 at 1:30 , the important to the .
this is that the one was agreed to the time .
now , we done rarely the Monday night , but we want to the Chair of the 1998 , and short .
this system . operating not .
after the break , I hope that some of carrying a calendar the practical that the the us begin at the
the one time , I timely my frustration , the many others , the my opinion .
i am sure that if the " our back in February , the the changes . the not been amendments , the refusera the region , leave to abandon the Senate to amend the calendar the , the entire clearly , not operating not .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I have made the honourable the last time that the senator Lynch - Staunton is dealt the this issue , and I , I still a time .
i do I do the Star with him .
in the , I understand , the Hon. point .
in the the Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate , and I believe that the collaboration of the honourable the in the Act . the - the I believe that we seek the latest the calendar .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the Honourable Senator Milne , seconded by the Honourable Senator Taylor , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the power to sit adjourn at 1:30 the 1998 1 December 1998 , the so , the Senate to the time , that , and that the application duparagraphe 95 ( 4 ) the the Rules the sitting , this regard .
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
banks and Commerce
leave to the committee , sitting , the time that the Senate
the Honourable Leo E . Kolber :
honourable senators , the first , I wish to thank the Opposition the the Opposition the the comments .
we do we are the poor senators working in the tranch?es and we take our levels .
with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 58 ( 1 ) the the Rules , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade , though the Senate to 15 at 1:30 today , the same if the Senate seat to the time , that , and that the application of the rule 95 ( 4 ) the the Rules the sitting , this regard .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is the the Canadian agreed , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
energy , Environment and gas natural
motion to the cultivation the committee to examine the Act , the Canadian protection of the Environment - Adjourned the the debate
the Honourable Mira Spivak , the same the the opinion of Motion to the 2,500 November 99 :
that the Senate urge the government to both the - the - sought his study of the Act , the Canadian protection of the Environment and the powers of the reading of this review the the Committee on the Canadian the energy , the the Environment and the the resources natural .
that the Committee on the Senate . the energy , the the Environment and the the resources natural entreprenne the - the - sought his study of the Act , the Canadian protection of the Environment as it is recommended whole in the seventh report of the committee , is 115 the the 8 September 1998 , the the summer tabled the the Senate . next .
the Hon. the Speaker :
leave is the it leave of change the motion so that proposed by the Honourable Senator Spivak ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Spivak :
i move that the motion amended the Orders of my name .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion such as amended ?
the senator Spivak :
honourable senators , this motion exhorant the government to both the - the - sought his study of the Act , the the Environment not . not my way hurling of properly , or in the same the the honourable the the side - the Canadian the House .
we wanted to amend a bill to the the hands angry to wanting before the the not be adopted .
unfortunately , we do we not have improved the Bill C C - 32 .
the us . imposed the images the two occasions , a time , the and a time here , the the Senate .
he not we , the not been possible . we ensure that a certain clause of the bill to the one of the same sense , French and the English .
the honourable the the other side . the in their report majority that the government reporting the next , the the bill to the C - 32 immediately after his compelling .
it will the all the Canadian of anglophones their view and the " and progress that the the Minister of the the concerns of Progress and the definition of concepts as the " transportation to the Canadian , breathing - Discrimination the , the " agreements Works , the Canadian environmental the and the " concept of the route to the
the country , the lurch the gap leave of harbour then to the the conducteur the back and the honourable that the will the gap . is not a way of the .
we have the duty of the government . the Resolution the the concepts and the resulting the the the the concepts that clear d?finis in the bill to the " is that they are compr?hensibles to all the Canadian .
we have heard the openness passion of a former bureaucrat , the us . " the not . overlooked the definition is that he was the by the cost - effective , the
he we , the requested the not . let the officials , d?patouiller . only the people / the ports , the to protect the health public and the Environment .
the honourable the in the clearest to the things differently and they are the then , the the proposals .
the true that , a part of the the people have recommended that is not achievable .
the examination mindful , provided to the article 343 , the WTO the bidding the entirety the the provisions of the bill and the functioning .
we do we not happy by the the gap . past , the the not be made his parcours , but we can the Canadian , moves the program of routing established by the m?canicien .
we can we look the the guideline of the Canadian the bill , e by the Minister .
as the the proposed the majority of the committee , we can begin by the " and Canadians , the Canadian symbols their point of the and then monitor the evolution of the things .
the not be dealt that new sites by the , 365 days , in the or plusde 13 sites by the , if the " the fact , the day f?ri?s and the the purpose of weekly .
is the the the the motion feasible ?
presumably , some of these clauses $ sites . the most used and the would a real rallye that the ways to the truth .
the ones who , are still , the Minister has the choice between two options .
then , the RCMP have captured the make the part of the complex the the work , the motion ? " - that the the data the adverse if the exposure to a substance to a synthetic given the one time , time thereafter is resolved to the ones human or to the Environment .
in the many cases , there was to some of the few sites the the odd the Canadian list of the sites of the priority , the data the exposure are very difficult to obtain .
this is to this kind of the number sites . the not been r?glement?es .
the second option the the offer to the Minister is the Whole . simple and the burden the process .
i know that , the least , he not choisisse this last option , some industries are ready to the objective , justice .
he not be not in their public that the RCMP classent their sites chemical as sites .
i am d?sol?e that is that some of complex , but it would many of time to rapporter all the arguments and explanation the us . was provided during the process of the bill to the .
i hope that you , croirez the honourable to the kind of manila .
that is the the the the will ?
a process being or a process that some industries preference .
the members of the committee similarly the Senate , the the people . were the scenario the the fact situation .
he would also to the the Minister stated the plan that he does " to enable the Hebrew - Discrimination .
our committee has received the paying the service in the one of the officials officials had written that the Hebrew - Discrimination , such as the new bill to the Canadian the , would be the result .
we want to inform how the Minister committed make the information of good results .
this is important to the Canadian , in particular , who , the North .
the global the model Canadian , the negotiations in the Canadian develop a convention World the Canadian reduction of the polluants converter wage .
in the absence of a treaty rigorous , the menu Canadian continue to be the worst d?potoir the the world . wastes sites such as the wastes , the events of the d?sagr?gation the the DDT and the other products chemical bioaccumulatifs persistant in the air .
the result , when the delegates to the purpose of the treaty on the POP the Privileges , March next , Bonn , the Minister should be prepared to put the the examination of model Canadian .
the chamber . , we should be done our devoirs and the " and Canadians , I , express their views .
the Canadian and why the practical , I move that this review immediate that the prior our meeting of the committee , the Senate .
first , the program of the committee , the other place . , full .
he not the not yet managed to complete a review of the system of the pesticides .
the Minister has promised a significant the legislation regarding the cash in danger and , with a little of opportunity , we should be the us look the Canadian and the legislation regarding the change climate .
our committee . the way . a big backlog of the Canadian law , to the
second , the motion . the the the summer submitted , the b?illon and the the proposed the the examination begin the most efficiently possible .
third , the committee , the other place . is interested by intermittence the Canadian Act , the Canadian protection of the Environment for six years .
he is the well fought and , in the Canadian n , the point of the the summer rejected by a government , the subjects the groups of pressure the the industry .
he would just the " that he has appropriately all the efforts possible , the the least for a number of the
the the side - the Canadian the House , the objective of term " remains the latest the extent legislation .
we delay of the things speak to correct the fact that the extent legislation . require not the the government feels the the government in the Canadian eliminate sponsors . would the the the one anglophones the the evidence sites the most polluants .
these polluants are CMHC to all the Canadian , and the particular , the people of the North .
the bill . require not the the government respect to allowing the pr?caution the means is something that the
in fact , he is the contradiction between the two languages official .
the excluded the M the one instance , a new Committee Advisory national .
the not agree that the efforts loans 4,000 by the the companies did the the area private .
he not there has no action instances the Canadian and concerns specific the Canadian health environmental the the children .
the cut the power to the Minister of the Environment and the criteria the decision of making the the Governor in the , particularly to the the motion of the issues relating to the Canadian biotechnologie .
the moneys also the power to the Minister of the Environment the review of cattle adverse the events biotechniques .
the the last point , the person the hope , the government hesitant the present the new the bill to the C - 1980 the the foods .
the the groups of the so that the many scientists the the Department of the health . the association to the the the cabinet the empare the the power to the Minister of the health of protecting the Canadian , because it is the duty .
i hope that is the Canadian law will reformul? to the best .
we had hoped to the question for many more of hours to the committee before the the bill to the revision not possibly the .
however , it is the motion . happened and the motion now , the history former .
we join the honourable the in the " support the home recommendation and the desperation a review exhaustive the Canadian Act , the Canadian protection of the Environment by our committee , the early possible .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
her the Honourable Senator Spivak would the it . In the one issue ?
the senator Spivak :
yes .
the senator Hays :
the motion original the the Honourable Senator badly the government to take some measures .
we have agreed that it be amended to the " hardware rather a study full by the committee that the Honourable Senator Hays .
is the the that a thing the the committee has ground ?
in the other words , benefits , a job of this nature , generally of the committee to the following the the discussions and the Hon. expressed the uncertainty a study special .
is the the the case , the foundation ?
the senator Spivak :
the , as the Honourable Senator Hays the record , the .
it is referring to a measure agreed physicians by the committee during his study of the Act , the Canadian protection of the Environment .
if the Senate wish him the question to the committee , I think that the committee will be the question and the the the person manila this study in the calendar .
he is the Canadian both a review .
the last , the five years .
this is the basis of this is my pretend that our committee should both the examination is that a committee , the other place , the as the honourable senators , knowing , would many of the things , to the the that the us parvienne .
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , I did the " no one . discussed the Canadian motion to the committee .
is the the the the senator Spivak would point of the " the committee whole and we say that he is widely the study or not ?
the senator Spivak :
he appropriate the - be the somewhat a adjourned . debate .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Taylor , the debate is adjourned . )
the Senate . the Senate
use the the Rules
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin :
the intent is behind this " .
i wish to provide here , the rule of the comment 485 the Canadian sixth edition of the 286 Parliamentary the precincts :
the use of phrase , Parliament may be considering the Canadian House of the chairman or by the important what member .
the House of the effect of this is deal of order and the privilege a question of privilege .
in the the concerns . the I consider as a " non Parliamentary , I wish I treatment here , the Canadian to the fact the and the back on this matter to the next sitting of the Senate .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the senator Corbin the , in the , the the the one point of the Rules the deferred .
as we , we , the Rules to the when the the " deal of order , the the report , the first opportunity .
this is that the the senator has made today , the
is the the Canadian agreed to the the leave tomorrow , a time that he will read the text ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Cools :
the .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the senator Cools . is not the agreement .
the senator Corbin :
the human the the said , but the not the the not the " from the Hon. Chair .
the Hon. the Speaker :
he not there has not agree to the the study of the motion be surgeons the near .
the senator Corbin :
your Honour , the the the the comment the the " the use of phrase , Parliament may be considering the Canadian House of the Speaker or by the important what member of the then , I move that you true the honourable the matter of the in this matter ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
the use the the Rules is valid .
a ) , I was asked the review the text and the basis , the rules . was enfreintes .
i am confident the the make .
energy , Environment and gas natural
leave to the committee , to the the issues related to the mandate
the Honourable Mira Spivak , pursuant to the moved 24 November 99 , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian the energy , the the Environment and the the resources natural , in Conformity with the article 86 ( 1 ) prospered ) the the Rules , the power to study of the the biological remote occasionally the Procedural the the energy , the the Environment and the the resources natural the General ; and
that the Committee examine the " the Senate to the most final 31 March 2000 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
leave to the committee , to the the staff and the the place , Adjourned the the debate
the Honourable Mira Spivak , pursuant to the moved 24 November 99 , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian the energy , the the Environment and the the resources natural the technical , clerical and services of counsel , clerical , clerical the board or other elements necessary to examine the bills of the , the substance of the Canadian law and the Estimates budget , he have been providing ; and
that the Committee be authorized to the place to adjourn the Canada and the the foreign to the purpose of such reviews .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , you pleasure , he and the Canadian motion ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . )
leave to the committee , to the premature the the deliberations , the media coverage
the Honourable Mira Spivak , pursuant to the moved 24 November 99 , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian the energy , the the Environment and the the resources natural the technical , to the heading the the deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible . the .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate . adjourned . p.m. at tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 15
the Thursday 2 December 1998
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the dumping
Maxwell Tabled '
the Day international the the people disabilities
the Francophonie
the Day national the comm?moration
the tenth anniversary of the tragedy Westray the the school Polytechnique
the Treaty international prevented the mines mines
second anniversary
the quaranti?me meeting Annual Conference , Quebec
the Environment
the Manitoba - Government d?rivation the the Mackenzie the the Meech Devil the Crosby the the North
business routine
bill to the Act , 1939 in the basis public
first Reading
prepared Canadian of the Church morave the North
the group Inter Canada - United - United
tabling of the report of the quaranti?me meeting Annual Conference , Quebec
fisheries
notice of Motion During the committee to study of the issues relating to the mandate
notice of Motion During the committee to engage the the staff
notice of Motion During the committee to allow the premature the the deliberations , the the average electronic
the Estimates , the Estimates for 1999 - 2000
introduction and Printed the Journals of the Report of the Committee of the Finance Finance the the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A )
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Transportation and the communication
the operation of Rescue the Inter - Canadian - Government Position of a study by the committee on
the Transportation
the Supreme the the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - Effect consequences of the application the in order to the article 47 of the Act , the Transportation the the Canada
the business Indian
the Nova Scotia Nova Scotia - attempts the suicide in the contingency the Membertou - Request for the facts and stately to help the communities aboriginal
the Nova Scotia Nova Scotia - attempts the suicide in the contingency the Membertou - Government ask the the leaders of the band the meeting of Minister
the health
the transfer of the " and provincial
the Finance
the report of the Auditor General - Conformity effectiveness of the planning budget , long term
answer regarding the one issue orale
the business foreign
the increase the the Estimates , remain in the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A ) , The of the opening of new celebrating
on business orders
the speech , the Throne
motion of the Canadian the Adresse the answer to Continued the the debate
bill to the chronic the decision of some decisions medical
second reading of Debate the the debate
bill to the Act , perquisitions and the saisies international
second reading of Second the the debate
privileges , Standing and Orders
third report of the committee , Sittings of the article
the freedom religious the China , report with the pactes international the the United Nations
inquiry - Debate the the debate
the Estimates , the Estimates , 1999 - 2000
notice of Motion to Authorize the the committee , the Finance Finance to study of Budgets and the Estimates , Adjourned the the debate
motion of amendment
finance Finance
leave to the committee , according to Permit by the the average electronic
leave to the committee , to the the staff
adjournment
the Senate
the Thursday 2 December 1998
the Chair . Chair . p.m. at the the Speaker , the the Chair .
prayers .
the Day international the the people disabilities
the Honourable M. Robertson :
honourable senators , tomorrow , the 3 December , will be the Day international the the people disabilities .
the Canadian . joindront the Canadian and millions of the in the world to celebrate the progress progress in the matter global dealing the people disabilities .
the Senate . the Canada . involved .
all the Canadian , but especially the Canadian disabilities , highway the us to promote them vision of a society , the equality of the opportunity to all be a reality .
the honourable are , the course , the " the proceeding to this vision , and today , a one another . the most to the realizing the this vision .
the honourable the highest . the the in 1998 , we are we undertook to develop a strategy to the latest the access to the Senate . the Canadian disabilities and the their to the part of the the business of the Senate .
it involves the Gallery , the Canadian saw the the information on the Senate , the participation in the Senate . the committee , the employee of the Senate and the honourable senators , this chamber , are disabilities .
we have upon the one approach to three consistently : a mentor the the senator , the disability , a plan of action and the the committee , training and the turn .
the " Guide the the senator , the disability the motion of document the reference to the use of the all ; it is the the information and the the advice on the way of the " and the the the magnitude some Canadians to the subject of various d?ficiences .
this is also a mentor practice which confirm our role drives in the research , the equality for all the Canadian and changes to make the the level community .
he is the one reading quick and I , d?poserai the the Senate . week next .
i draw the the honourable that is guide will also available on the Intranet the the Senate to the in the Canadian reading with the technologique .
the text para?tra soon . braille .
the second track includes a plan of action . the Canadian disability , the the temperatures realistic and the Canadian and results mesurables .
some of our colleagues and honoured to the Senate . Hamm the developing the plan , encadr?s by a team of expert the Canadian condition of the disabled .
the issues are getting and the plan will the comprehensive , in the the the will the the information , affecting the Canadian the Canadian the Employment , the the assistance technical , the the facilities and the Canadian Transportation .
this document , is the the first cycle the Hon. the .
the plan of action . the Senate . the Canada . fundamentally not our environment , or the manner tangible , or the the Order of the next , but it would , in time appropriate , using the example , the other representations forth .
i am impatiente the " join the the senator Carstairs , you to the plan of action . February 2000 .
the third track of our strength the Act , clerical the committee , training and the turn to the condition of the disabled , includes a Consideration of information on the issues of appropriate hitting , a list of the major players the this community and the the information on the prospects and the obstacles in the next millennium .
the document explicatif will also be in February 2000 .
honourable senators , is how we can give the the whole of the Canadian the possibility of the fullest the the Senate . the Senate .
he not . the fair that , in this offered the Canadian Francophonie international the the people disabilities , we renouvelions our commitment to the respect to the mental and the the equality for all .
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , the senator Robertson the motion montr?e very generous the my place today , the in this offered the Canadian Francophonie international the the people disabilities .
the various occasions , it has spoken to the first one of the pluriel .
honourable senators , he is that the the motion to the senator Brenda Robertson that we must this action .
i have only in the Canadian production of the document the honourable will shock the week next and the the development of the plan of action that you embark the late .
the other people important , in the this action ; they are guarding the Canadian gallery North .
if they are guarding the Canadian gallery North , honourable senators , the motion because the this forum is now accessible to the people disabilities .
the chamber , this tribuneM. Skip Brooks , Mr. Martin Euteneier , Mr. Jim Turner , Dr. Toner Fleury - Morena , Dr. Pina DiFranco and her Julie Richer .
the absence her Marie Trudeau , Dr. Bernette Quade bearer Luc Clairoux .
i thank her the senator Robertson the opening the seaway , this initiative .
the Francophonie
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , I speak often the Canadian Francophonie international .
as the number of the people from the the was the Francophonie .
it . When a experience , he is the few years spent , then , I have had the pleasure , meeting Val?ry Giscard De Estaing , the former chairman of the France .
i was informed the my colleague , the Honourable Senator De Ban .
i have asked the question Mr. Giscard the Estaing , the knowledge . the reductions the Francophonie .
he I was " : " This is the France ! the
i have the the the , the one misunderstanding , because the to me , the Francophonie , the not . not the France , the motion . the the that the
while I have sought and found the definition that regard :
the Francophonie is the first , community of the Aboriginal the , the Canadian and degrees various , creative or used the French in their lives national or in their relationship international .
but it is also a whole of organizations and the Friends , regarding or not limited , rendered in the the areas of the and the the areas of the common to the members of the community speaking .
since the Year of the Agence the Canadian Francophonie , the Subcommittee the leaders of the and the government . the country , the French , does , the Francophonie is absolutely a place . dialogue policy and the trade , strong the Canadian mobilisation the the resources necessary to the activities of the cooperation the the Aboriginal .
honourable senators , I believe that this definition is exactly .
the Day national the comm?moration
the tenth anniversary of the tragedy Westray the the school Polytechnique
the Honourable Catherine S . Callbeck :
honourable senators , the 6 December 1998 Gallery the 10e anniversary of the tragedy Westray the the school Polytechnique the Montreal .
the 6 December , he is the 10 years , a man arm? the one fusil the leprechauns in the school and killed p.m. women simply because the provinces , the the women .
this event is a point cruel to all the Canadian of the fact that the violence the " and women . a problem , too draft .
this tragedy we , forced to take conscience of the importance of the problem and the workforce our efforts in the Canadian to the " the violence the " and women .
the Canadian . did in being the 6 December of Day national the comm?moration and the action against the violence the " and women .
the present , each year , the Canadian . remember and honoured tribute to only to the 14 women who are missing . on the 1989 , but also to the women who live all the day , the threat of the violence and the ones who have been injured the actions of violence d?lib?r?s .
the the well organized the the events as the Campagne the the rubans earn , the patient the men the everywhere a boots white and the the CCN to the ever mistake of actions of violence , the women or the close to most of the sidelines nothing on the kind of actions .
the Council Advisory the Canadian the Canadian the wife , the Island , Prince Edward Island , Prince the single the Right a Campagne the the rubans violets the famous the eighth anniversary this year .
in the part of this crop , the distribue about 8 per rubans violets and the the cartes the the people of the Island .
this program actually the lore more the people to the violence the the respect to the women and the the children .
the government , and the governments provincial the the Canada . the way of the government recent .
the Declaration of Iqaluit , proclaimed squeeze , the 6 December 1998 , in all the provinces and all the territories of a slip the the other . the country , reflects the determination of the governments to the end to the violence , the women .
this are there , the government positive , but it remains yet many of the .
this year , the 6 December , I hope that we take all the time , only to remind the memory of all the women victims of violence , but the agony the Canadian and the facts , to the Republic of violence , the women .
the Treaty international prevented the mines mines
second anniversary
the Honourable Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , the motion today , the second anniversary of the Treaty international prevented the mines mines .
the treaty the 1997 prevented the use , the production , the adjunct and the transfer of the mines mines Mines the summer ratified by 89 country and signed by 136 .
in September 1998 , 40,000 country had ratified the treaty , the so that the treaty . become law international the 1 March 1998 .
the treaty testimony not only to a commitment to liberate the world . the mines mines , but the the negotiation of the passage of objectives humanitarian the Canadian the Canadian the government ' and the the Minister of the Foreign Affairs , Mr. Axworthy .
we should also charmer the work of Mines keynote Canada and the other organizations anim?s the the same ideas the work , the order to build a crop . the peace .
the Canada is maintaining the efforts to build a crop . the peace and the government . the fair and the declining to the children of the world who , too often , are the eleventh victims of the effects horribles the Canadian War , as well for the following the mother .
the group Inter Canada - United - United
the quaranti?me meeting Annual Conference , Quebec
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , in quality of Joint the Canadian delegation Canadian , I bring the late today , the report of the quaranti?me meeting Annual the the group Inter Canada - United - United , the the in the " Quebec , the 20 , the 24 May 1998 .
in lieu this year , meeting of Quebec , we have followed the trend established to the opportunity to a place meeting with the place to the Canada . there has both years , the Forteresse the Louisbourg the the Cape - Cape and to him his apog?e the Canadian Room of the Confederation , Charlottetown , in the Island , Prince Edward Island , Prince .
in quality of Joint the Canadian delegation , I wish to the in numerous with our colleagues American , we are done better understanding of community Canadian and that we are gifted a gathering concrete the history Canadian .
we have had the the trade open and enabled the Canadian institutions of problems , travesties our relations bilateral .
we do we have forgotten that , the the the factors of friction trade between our two of the instantan?ment relev?s by the media , 97p. per - our trade bilateral the negotiations the way peaceful , effective and profitable to our two of the
these links the work ties with our colleagues , the Congress of the United - United we help to deal of problems , hopefully time to this place .
a the the problems , and the the less , is the recent decision of the executive American the repudiate the date of entry , into the the article 110 the Canadian Act , the Immigration and the naturalisation the the United - United , the one came to under the reason will required a visa to enter the the United - United .
the issues that we have raised in the opportunity des38e , 39e and 40e meetings high the country group of Communist the introduction of two - the bill to the private the the Congress .
honourable senators , the the Donkin a great attention to the embouteillages matching the the article frontaliers , the are account the the increase fulgurante and growing the the trade , the years of the five years in the Canadian and chevauchements the federal , there apparaissent .
the chairs and the the House of recent in the Washington the one conference of the Can - Am Border Trade Alliance .
i will be the the Senate . the Act . meeting of the years of the next day .
honourable senators , I wish to time , the honourable encourage all the comments the abr?g? the the issues , the very in the report , will report of the most later , the full the Canadian this evening and the work active with us in the Canadian dollar our relations with our colleagues American to a future beneficial to our two of the
the issues , we closer are the many of the the us divisent .
yet , our relations trade require a resolute Increase and a diligent reasonable .
let - I , thank my co Canadian , Joe Comuzzi , the the other place , our responsibility of the employee , Carol Chafe , our hire American , the s?nateurFrank Murkowski the the Alaska and the Ontario Amo Houghton the the state of York Times , and staff and all the honourable senators , and equanimity cooperation in the public . our two major country .
we comptons , the the Senate plays a role active in all these developments in the future meetings .
the Environment
the Manitoba - Government d?rivation the the Mackenzie the the Meech Devil the Crosby the the North
the Honourable Janis Johnson :
honourable senators , I wish attention your attention of the events who is occurring the the Manitoba , the subject of the bill to d?rivation the the Mackenzie the the Meech Devil .
this is a name effrayant to a bill to combine hydraulique effrayant .
the state of the Crosby the the North the foot the water , too , the Meech Devil in the River Cross .
as you the you may , the , the River Cross tough the border to enter the the Manitoba and from the look in the Meech Winnipeg .
the River Cross is the habitat the somewhat 50 cash the poissons the water rain and the biologistes Pages that it is the second , the water the most rich the the Canada , the Lower St. - Lawrence .
the case of the problems of disasters the the Meech Devil , the state of the Crosby the the North to creuser a judicial the drainage the three miles of term , resulting in the River Cross .
the Meech Devil is strongly salin and the Krever the the events chemical toxins .
it . important , the , " the the poissons extremely agressifs and the potential commercial the are studying the the Mackenzie Canadian .
these cash the poissons resources to the pool hydrographique the the Gulf of the Mexico .
the River Cross , as all the treeless the the Manitoba , the discredit in the pool hydrographique the the menu .
these issuing hydrographiques are divided by a up natural and their cash respective are demeur?es separated for 10 per year .
the introduction of the poissons the the Meech Devil in the River Cross would also risqu?e that the introduction of the peace , Australia .
in the the senator , the Manitoba , founder of a ground riverain the the Meech Winnipeg and the Canadian the group of oversight of the Meech Winnipeg , I can you make the that will become a bill . controversial .
the Meech Winnipeg . , the " the serious threat .
the r?gulation the the Meech the Canadian and for hydro?lectriques contributes to the floods and the the diminution of the berges .
the levels of water artificiellement high . Ottenheimer destroyed the marais the the Meech Netley , stood legends .
this bill be full the clou in the cercueil the the one of our most great lakes Canadian .
i am pleased to see that the government , the interest , the Canadian . .
in a statement that he has made the months , the the the said that he not consent no diversion the the best a threat to the Mackenzie Canadian .
however , the Prime Minister Gary Doer the the Manitoba , visited recently the site proposed and the the announcement the Hon. back to the Crosby the the North Royce deal of the in priority , providing begin the construction as the months of October next .
business routine
bill to the Act , 1939 in the basis public
first Reading
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) presented the bill to the S - 13 , the motion to promote the prevention of the conduites reprehensible in the basis public , strong a part of the education . the the the policy , the practical ensure the the Ethics the environment , the , the treatment of the allegations of conduites reprehensible and the protection of the d?nonciateurs .
( the bill to the motion read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
when shall - we are the Canadian law . second time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Kinsella , the second reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
prepared Canadian of the Church morave the North
bill to the private amend the bill establish the human moral - First Reading
the Honourable Nicholas W . Taylor , the Bill C S - 14 , the Act , the Tobacco the human moral the Council of the former the Canadian prepared Canadian of the Church morave the North .
( the bill to the motion read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . second time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Taylor , the second reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the mardi7 December 1998 . )
the group Inter Canada - United - United
tabling of the report of the quaranti?me meeting Annual Conference , Quebec
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I have the honour to table , in the two languages official , the report of the quaranti?me meeting Annual the the group Inter Canada - United - United the the motion held in Quebec , the the 20 , the 24 May 1998 .
notice of Motion During the committee to study of the issues relating to the mandate
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , I give notice that Tuesday next , the 7 December 1998 , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian and Oceans be authorized to study , to the present a report on the the issues relating to the industry . the fishery ;
that the Committee examine the " the most later regarding December 2000 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practical consequently , the table the report of the the Greffier the the Senate , the Senate . " no , and that obedience report be deposited have been tabled the the Senate .
notice of Motion During the committee to engage the the staff
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , I give notice that Tuesday next , the 7 December 1998 , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian and Oceans be authorized to withhold the services of counsel , clerical , clerical the board or other elements necessary to examine the bills of the , the substance of the Canadian law and the Estimates budget , he have been providing .
notice of Motion During the committee to allow the premature the the deliberations , the the average electronic
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , I give notice that Tuesday next , the 7 December 1998 , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian and Oceans be authorized to allow the heading the the deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible . the .
the Estimates , the Estimates for 1999 - 2000
introduction and Printed the Journals of the Report of the Committee of the Finance Finance the the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A )
leave having been granted , back to the introduction of reports the committee standing or special :
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I have the honour to present the second report of the committee on the Canadian and money Finance the door the the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A ) the 1998 - 2000 .
i ask that the report be printed in Printed the the Journals of the Senate . today , the
the Hon. the Speaker :
is the the Canadian agreed , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Murray , the study of the report is placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Transportation and the communication
the operation of Rescue the Inter - Canadian - Government Position of a study by the committee on
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , my question . question to the chairman of the committee on the Canadian and Communications and the the communication .
if you , the the the said the Canadian the financial the the company ?
if the right - you the intent of the the testimony Mr. Myhill ?
the Honourable Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , the committee . the not yet the report because he not the not get his work .
we will be the week next and when the report be considered , I , bring to this chamber .
the senator Kinsella :
your committee , as the committee , the other place , the the the intent of the this situation . serious or the is the the Canadian a matter carefully the the committee ?
the senator Bacon :
honourable senators , our committee has received a person of Reference and the mandate of this chamber . did the the committee .
this is that the us do the the time and when we will get , we d?poserons the report .
the Transportation
the Supreme the the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - Effect consequences of the application the in order to the article 47 of the Act , the Transportation the the Canada
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I have a question supplementary the most of the Leader of the government to the Senate .
here , Terrence the Canadian second page of this letter :
he not the no doubt that Inter - Canadian is the victim of political and the government con?ues to serve the interests of the stakeholders the the area , the number of conservation the the the Inter - Canadian disparaisse .
we are anxious to the the the shareholders of Inter - Canadian insistent to the us ask the country lawyer , to the situation in detail and the other , the government court and other , our clause to rectify the situation .
what is the Government of the government to the respect to his responsibilities for the difficulty that the chairman of Inter - Canadian , internalize by the Canadian and events who have followed the application the " and under the the article 47 of the Act , the Transportation the the Canada ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
i thank the Honourable Senator the the question .
i do I do the the opportunity to study carefully the letter of the chairman of Inter - Canadian or his statement on the situation . the company .
the the opinion , a prohibited to prosecute the the court against the government . the Canada , I am sure that he the will .
i know the magnitude of the difficulties financial that Inter - Canadian having at or ?prouvait before the the Senate . the common to the article 47 .
i do know that if the difficulties financial implements the prior to use or if they are account the Canadian and considered relating to the seaway the this person .
the responsibility of the government . the Canada has been stated clear , the Minister of the Transport when he has described the principle that the the service to the small communities Canadian is sufficient and continue to be sufficient .
he is difficult to say , this responsibility to outstanding the the fate of a company particular in the the circumstances data .
the government and the Minister of being established the principles of their Agenda .
i do will not the subsequent , because I am sure that the Honourable Senator does all the principles which guideront the action . the government .
the business Indian
the Nova Scotia Nova Scotia - attempts the suicide in the contingency the Membertou - Request for the facts and stately to help the communities aboriginal
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the week , the " Sydney , in Nova Scotia Nova , four children , seniors the 9 , 13 years , are gone in the Negev in their executive , determined to the crudely the " and daily .
two boys the Canadian bunch Membertou , third reserve Mi' kmaq the importance of the province , the truly tried to the lobbying the life in the years , a tree - a with a cold the linge and the other with a cold .
the police and the other children . We the cut the Depression the time .
the the communities are in crisis across the the Canada .
the the children aboriginal , the the children Canadians . tuent .
the one of excluded in 1997 , the University of Toronto , the rate annual the the suicides the the aboriginal seniors the 15 , 24 years . the $ 110 to cast $ people - in comparison the 25 suicides to cast $ people smoking the people of the same group of age in the rest of the people .
Tuesday , the board and the Opposition the Canadian bunch Membertou the implor? the Department of the Foreign Indian the the help the finan?ant properly the the program of counselling regarding the the parents and the the children aboriginal .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I am the the armed the Canadian the general , which the senator has made reference .
i do I do not to the armed the the details specific the the Somalia . the .
what the the in the , the challenge that we become the the communities , Membertou , and the , the Canadian and communities . the kind of the world in the country , is real and there has the the decades , even have the the centuries .
the government . the Canada attempts the challenges . You the one way constructive , the the way of the many programs offered by the Department .
i am sure that the Minister of the chair serious the CCN made by the representatives of Membertou .
in the , I hope I suggest with him and with some of each of the representatives of this community , the the years of the next day .
the Nova Scotia Nova Scotia - attempts the suicide in the contingency the Membertou - Government ask the the leaders of the band the meeting of Minister
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , he is interesting the the Leader of the government has spoken of the Minister of the Foreign Indian and the the North Canadian , Mr. Robert Nault , because , as it . know , the board and the Opposition the Canadian bunch Membertou the requested to meet directly the Minister .
the Minister is the the loan to gain the this request ?
if you , when ?
in the few weeks to come ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I do I learned that some minutes before the coming to the Senate that a meeting was the demand?e .
i will be my possible for easier the things .
in the individual , the decision up to the Minister , the same , but I know that he convey to the Canadian and circumstances , around this is the the the entire , lest as the possible .
the health
the transfer of the " and provincial
the Honourable Jean - Claude Rivest :
honourable senators , I wish to the the Minister of the the the intent of awareness of colleagues , the Council of the ministers of a the the problems enhancing the all the regions , the Canada , the knowledge of funding of the services of health , the the services social and the the education ?
if the preamble the newspapers or if the following the situation in the hospital the bins the the provinces , the Canada , the widespread that the governments of the provinces are the the actions with the the difficulties resulting the subamendment , funding .
this lack of resources financial to support the quality of the care of the little about all the institutions hospitals to the country brings a deep the staff and the Information , a encombrement the the emergency the emergency , a reduction of the resources and the the staff succeeds the Canadian and the elderly , and Fundamental .
the government , supporting and unlimited the surplus payments .
the the place . to the Right the the bills , hidden a number of the as a leadership of scholarships the the millennium in the area of the education or , recently , a program for combat the diabetes , the Minister . think it is that he would be the the government ' lot of the extremely important to his surplus to a transfer to the governments of the provinces ?
in the Canadian to the good operating the country , the and the doctrine get the services to the whole of the people , the transfer of the surplus would the the governments of responsibilities of a way d?cente their responsibilities Constitutional in the area of the health , the the services social and the the education .
these needs are the basis of the good operating the country from the
is the the the the not be not time that the government . the Canada anthologies this is absolute the the motion expressed by the whole of the regions Canadian ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
the challenges . the size in the " because of a higher considerable the Canadian the , the amount of a number of the factors , the the less . is not the d?mographie .
the the years of the next decade , the factors demographic bureaucratic , a serious problem .
the government , the well borne in the budget of 1999 , but I do songerais not a single at the " to the senator , he not there has not the great challenges the us expect .
the area of the health will be the be well as a the challenges will the most redoutables to the government , and the provinces , the years of the ten years in the
the senator Rivest :
the government . the Canada , in the Canadian and other priorities that he can employ in the use of these surplus , not be the the not do , the one way zone and direct , a transfer significant the fund to the governments of the provinces to the provinces will be the " and demands extremely Japanese the the area of the health ?
you have been Minister of the Foreign Affairs .
you separatist very well , the Canadian and the amounts , the not become Winfrey that the the government ' s , were awarded the answer to the needs pressants the the area of the health .
a balancing calibre and substantial the the government ' will the the governments of the provinces , e . needs .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I , I said , the years , year about the the government has made to the government to restore the important we , the funding paid to the provinces .
the my humble opinion however , he not enough . the increase the funding .
it equivalent to feed , repeatedly a request illimit?e .
i believe that he will completely the funding for the request continue to increase and that he will also encouraging the ability to the " the point of the approaches innovative as the Canadian benefit of the care of health and find the the solutions rector the this regard .
a leadership of the commitment to the present government is the new funding substantial the Canadian research , health .
the government has made in the one ' remarkable .
i have the confidence that he continue to the make the extent that we exhausting .
the Honourable Roch Bolduc :
honourable senators , I do I do come prolong the debate .
the one of the the government proceeds the the fund in the research medical and , the other hand , the next , he informed the creation of a program for the dystrophie musculaire and , the surlendemain , a place program for a place who .
the government , the the advent , " and priorities of the care of health .
this is the not the role .
the that the the background of the responsibility of the provinces . unacceptable !
you not allowed not satisfy our people . the right is acceptable .
the government , the in terms , the ing?re in the management of the care of health .
he " that this service . the most urgently and the not a place .
this is the not acknowledge .
the government , the Canadian and that the important to do the one of the high .
the role is the allocation the resources to the country .
he has the great roles the role in the political international , the political monetary , and Fundamental .
the people . the supportera not .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the senator has the reason .
the benefit of the care of health . was the dossier , as a responsibility provincial .
however , the would be wrong . " that the government , not the Canadian from the " role that the Canadian sign a cheque .
in the , the Act , the Canadian health . probably the extent legislation . the guiding the first , the in the Canadian health of health .
the government , the one part of dabbling .
he not . not to the first page of the benefit of the care , because it is up to the provinces , I , putting .
this is why the funding by the government , the Canadian research and some new initiatives the the kind will useful ; they will the the provinces , challenges the challenges the the plan .
the senator Bolduc :
honourable senators , I have the feeling that the officials federal - the Department of the health . " that the " guys the " Toronto , the Vancouver and the Quebec . those not . the " will be the " the motion ? the the that news ?
this was just a app?ritif .
the Finance
the report of the Auditor General - Conformity effectiveness of the planning budget , long term
the Honourable Roch Bolduc :
as it . the fact , the past , the Auditor General has said , new to the Parliament , a subcommittee of planning the two to five years , the motion . too short to the meeting the Canadian and consequences the long term of the choice budget that we do , including the one in the Canadian public population , with all the impact that this includes .
honourable senators , it is the not the institution . objectives or the rights of these games .
he is a the Province of affected the long term of the decisions the the government .
the the committee , the accountability public . the other place . the subscriber the Canadian need to projections to the long term .
however , the government continues to say that the us apart the the information to long term , he minerait the importance and the emergency the the deal to the problems imm?diats .
honourable senators , the Leader of the government would the the onus why the Auditor General has wrong when he said that is not . the in songeant the the consequences the most long term , we reach fully in the Canadian Food the emergency the country in addressing ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the planning not the not the one only the , and different periods of planning administration to different criterion .
i can say , fear of the wrong that the almost all the departments , the planning to long term the Act , the dark the five years , the ten years , even more .
the the purpose of the process budget , the Minister of the Finance has said that is the one brief prudent , but appropriate , the Canadian . restrict the one graduate of two years , whether the the requirements budget and the the term of revenue specific to a year thereafter .
it is to the " that the government . the interest . " the planning to the long term and that he not the practice not .
the senator Bolduc :
honourable senators , the attitude of the Auditor General I attach reasonable .
i am the agreement when the Minister said that the one based on budg?tisation the two years , it is being reasonable .
i can understand that the
the Auditor General said that the government should stop the Canadian to the Canadian public . the students , the long term .
the the known that , by the , in the area of the pension , the " the the Canadian and pension , the people . the following .
the the the Canadian and pension , the people pendant25 years , the first , a look , the the motion awakened .
Mr. . Paul Martin has examined the question and the rest that this is the most of a sense , the the main increase the contributions of 73p. per - by three years , if the would the Income the the plan .
it is the not confer .
the Auditor General of the , and I am the agreement , the the then we to the the statisques the long term .
the example of the pension . the most bel example , the so that the
the the motion thanks to the was easy to give the the pension , the people who is the not quite .
now , the request to the generation next , " to the pension .
the this generation receive probably the the returns the will lower the most of their parents .
he not . not just that my children . pay a pension , the Canadian and will less when they will my age .
the the increase the 73p. per , the chamber four years , not alone . the problem . problem .
he is looking the implications the long term .
the government should be to a duty of the one such rule .
this is a rule of wisdom to a healthy management .
the important what company the fact .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the Pension the pension of the Canada . course , the Canadian reviews .
he is administered the Canadian , by the government , and the provinces .
the two levels of the the Subcommittee all the three years record for draw the objectives the long term .
i agree that , in fonctionnant , the " long term , the risk of hypoth?quer the generations future , the will appel?es the cost to the services , take the generation at the
the worst example , I can you to the scene that is the Canadian a government , hydro the tremendous deficits .
the record of our government is good in the area .
is the worst example , Sen the comments of the Honourable Senator .
fortunately , the present Minister of the Finance and the present government . corrected the situation .
i know that the Honourable Senator the medical the their success .
answer regarding the one issue orale
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
i have the answer regarding the one issue . the honorables?nateur Stratton has raised the 24 November 99 the the subject of the Estimates , remain in the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A ) and the Canadian of the opening of new celebrating .
the business foreign
the increase the the Estimates , remain in the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A ) , The of the opening of new celebrating
( response to the question raised by the Honourable Terry Stratton 24 November 99 )
in response to the question , report on the remainder proposed the Germans 875 400 $ the the authority to supply at the doubling 690 $ $ the the Department of the Foreign Affairs and the the International Covenant on MAECI ) by the inclusion of the Estimates Main the the Estimates , 1999 - 2000 , he is out that the budget of the capital of the MAECI covers the Estimates , only to the foreign liabilities , but also to the other retirement punishment and incorporels .
the the 131 565 $ $ proposed , about 68 million . $ are detained for the Estimates for goods liabilities .
the rest will result of the maintenance of the system global the Telecommunications and the disadvantages computer the management of the information , the Upholder the disadvantages and the equipment the safety , the Upholder the vehicle in the inevitable the the foreign , the Senate . redress and the face of the Surveyor and the Upholder the struggles and 7 , ameublement .
in the the concerns of the arguments to the the Surveyor , the bill realized the Berlin not a that 26,2 million . the total , 1999 - 2000 .
the rest of the fund approved the the funding of the capital of Berlin will spent years , promised 2000 - 2001 the 2002 - estimates .
the list of the major capital in capital the are corridors the Canadian and the arguments to the the Surveyor the 1998 - 2000 . the in the picture the following .
the levels of spending different the most made the year , in the Rapports 99 - 2000 the the bills and the priorities of the MAECI to various reasons : expectations to obtain the fishing local the construction , continuing invitations by the Duplessis the same the Canadian labour - the implementation and the the adjacent and the Canadian time that expected spent in the reading of conception the some legislation .
major the Canadian capital
fiscal scheduled for 1999 - 2000 ( million $ )
Beijing China ( Achat the one complex diplomatic )
Berlin , Germany ( Construction the one chancellerie )
Berlin , Germany ( Construction the one residence official )
the Cairo , Egypt ( Construction the one chancellerie )
Caracas , Venezuela ( Achat the one chancellerie )
Geneva , Switzerland ( Construction the one chancellerie )
Kingston , Jama?que ( Construction the one chancellerie )
Nairobi , Kenya ( Construction the one chancellerie )
new Delhi , India ( Construction the housing for the staff )
Tokyo , Japan ( Construction the housing for the staff )
Warsaw , Auschwitz ( Agrandissement / renovate the Canadian chancellerie )
sixth , Korea ( D?m?nagement the Canadian chancellerie )
on business orders
the speech , the Throne
motion of the Canadian the Adresse the answer to Continued the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Jeffrey , seconded by the Honourable Senator Furey , seconded the the adoption of a Adresse the Governor General of Gouverneure general , on the the speech that contemporaries the speech in the the opening of the second session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament . - (
6e on the Canadian resuming the the debate adjourned
the Honourable Norman K . Atkins :
you , arriverez the - be the go?ter so , functioning of this place . you join reconsidered your first comments on the length of your patience the the Senate .
i have liked the answer to the Leader of the government has made to the question that I , I raised last , the knowledge that he essaierait the visit the London Vimy before the Honourable the the Senate . the Senate , after the medical the Christmas .
i would delighted to the , participating .
senator Hays , you have the many of things in your life public and the the Senate .
he was the " the natural that you welcome invited to assume the part of Leader Deputy the this place .
this is much a tradition .
your previous the summer the Canadian the Liberal Party , he also .
your contribution positive to the Senate . the committee is also , known .
your experience you help the - be the understanding that he would gain the indicated the study of a more a number of the Canadian law , the Whole .
personally , I hope that you sell continue to be active in the public . the committee on the the Agriculture , including the this period of crisis which fail the c?r?aliculteurs Canadian .
the honourable the the side - the unrealistic the senator Graham as a leader effective the the government to the Senate .
he knew that the role was the make the so that the bills of the members adopted . the place .
however , in the fiscal the the part , he did appreciate the work of the Opposition and recognize the importance .
our role is the debate . the bills of the and the attention to the attention of the government and the the Canadian and flawed that they conventions .
the senator Graham has also acknowledged that the role of the Senate . efficient not to approve automatically the work of the House of the House .
he do the the Senate . Oliver more to the impact of the government legislation and the Canadian the the provinces are made , and the editorials carefully the arguments of those who are in favour of these measures and the most of the , opposed .
the the the us . came to the opportunity to beg the opinion , he , the senator Graham has always treaty the Opposition with d?f?rence and considered the role of the Senate respectfully .
this was a chance single the make the Canadian projection and the " to the Canadian to what the government broad the Canada . lead to the years of the years , in the
this speech would have established the reason , the Canadian the government , the the the means to the the power to the welfare .
the years Pearson the summer caract?ris?es by the commitment to the respect to a system of care of health universal , our centennial and a new flag , the the the leading to do know more the Canada , the other countries , the world .
the " managing just the and the patriation of the Constitution . Therefore the years Trudeau .
this is over the mandate of Joe Clark as the Minister that we are we rapproch?s the umbrella of the other , as the Canadian , the us we learned the best we understand the " the tab the the Canada as a " and the communities , the
this is also to the years of these re that the Canada . is fresher the the grounds the countries , based based today , " and timing of free - free and the reform tax , which makes our profound practices the " and partners trade .
he worth the only to examine the governments that we have enlightened the the Canada , the years of the proportion years in the look at what the the government Chr not the no political and no vision of future .
the Canadian flag as the one speech , the Throne not appearing no vision .
we are further .
in the speech , the government . autocongratule , " to the role that he plays in the economy .
the the subject , I wish I associate the the words of the Opposition the the Opposition to the Senate , the senator Lynch - Staunton .
in the speech , on the the speech , the Throne , he has given to the government . the lessons of history and the economy . the officials of the crisis financial that tough the Canada - and Liberal the Trudeau - and the most of the LAVs the basis of which the articulent the solutions - and Conservatives the Mulroney .
the question of the I could predated the the speech that I have speech in the the debate budget , beginning of the .
i have helpfulness the government to have balanced the budget , but I have also underlined that he n?gligeait the many leviers economic .
the Canada . draw not enough to raise foreign , the tax . all the levels of the are too high , our productivity is the low that it threat our level of life and no purpose of reduction of the debt Canadian . the summer set .
a number of the economists concerned that the dollar Canadian ethics , there is 60 cents the chamber five years .
the weakness of our neighbours the Communist the one series of the Canadian Air the business Canadian .
it has led the former prime minister of the Alberta , Peter Lougheed , the seat :
i am concerned , the passivit? the the governments , the the citizens and the the companies , the respect to the number of iceberg the business Canadian exporters by the the companies American and then , the Canadian Grain the decision of making the the Canada , the following the the transfer of the blind social the business . the United - United .
no . is the , then , the Minister of the Finance continue to Hussein a surplus to the pleasure .
the speech , the Throne informed the the cuts to tax , the the cuts to human not the more remarqu?es , the not signed the not to the surplus Surplus in the pension of the - job .
the items of the government on the plan economic , the problems drawn the the tax , the Canadian productivity and the the investment foreign the leading Tom De Aquino , the chairman of the Council Canadian of the leaders of business , the seat :
in the , we have the Ottawa . the the not understand that the state of the situation . the country , the opposite .
the one , the economy . the well , a number growing the people have a job , the surplus the investments and the plebiscite are very supportive to the government .
the people as you and I and the Canadian and the osent to a change radical and the new ideas are often treated as the the alarmistes the not seek the their public , the
the items of the government in the areas . applaud the most in the part of the debate on the brain the the brain the the Canada .
the Prime Minister believes that is the just a recession and I guess the the opinion that if the not the way , as the the case of the Canadian and the , the problem dispara?tra the the - the or the not to ask not the accountability .
honourable senators , the not . not the point of the Canadian and expert the people attended the country caucus of the summer the Calgary , in September .
the representatives of the industry , the the area private , the groups of reflection and the the world university we have the government . the state of the question and the the impact negative the the arrival , then , the Canadian trying to be financially the the market global .
the course , a leadership co - that the the Prime Minister that the one myth we , the by John Roth , the - CEO General of Nortel Networks .
the the number of the major reason for reasons our best professional leaving the Canada , he reads the weakness of the dollar Canadian , the rate of tax marginal the most high the the Canada and the level exaltant the dark trade , the foreign the the Canada .
this is the the inclusion of political financial , stabilization and economic that a government creates a climate economic encouraging the people to stay the the Canada or the coming to the businesses .
commentant the statements Mr. Roth , the agenda Canadian Peter C . Jeffrey the said :
i do believe that the the lurch that : " " I foutre my compound the the Canada . "
Mr. . Jeffrey think the matrimonial Roth to say :
the I do I do the choice . "
the lack of vision of the government , the lack of activity in the jurisdictional financial and economic , except the Canadian and the motion to balance the budget on the walk the the provinces and the the citizens of the poor the the Canada , are the the country . the problem .
the U the the government to a reality whose not the the exacerber the problem .
what is the public . the benefits to the people who talk regularly the one in the work , a situation . " - be instituted ?
as Marjorie Doyle , St. John ' s Newfoundland - Newfoundland , the the actions , October :
the speech , the Throne the Canadian week , not to coast . " I .
the letter described excursions the inadaptation the Canadian promise of the speech , the Throne the the future of the Internet the Canadian reality of the life in a port of Fisheries and Newfoundland - Newfoundland or in the Canada rural .
it is :
the vision of a Canada , the Canadian the high technology the Railway the challenges , fix , even the traumatic , when it is being the the time when you see a man d?barquer the the pier the actions of hareng or the calmar the the assistance of a tool than the
the extent that the speech , the Throne advance , adding the Canadian glorification the all the things cybern?tiques , it . When that the gap between the Canada . the classroom dirigeante and the the Canadian many Canadians live . in the very large -
... and the creuse , -
he not . not possible that the small province independently the Newfoundland - Newfoundland , the only place where the people and the revised the life . marginalized , if outright suit , by the concept of a Canada , would the king Cyber .
he must be there have not hurt the Canadian in the regions rural the the space cybern?tique seems p?riph?rique .
the Order the the speech , the Throne the summer speech , weekly last , the road the most fr?quent?e the Canadian small province independently the Newfoundland - Newfoundland . the path of land battue Work the the jardins wing the the back to the community , the the jardins the the men and the women cultive the the plantes roots , a little as the result of ancestors the the beginning duXIXe century , working often on the same small carr? the land .
the men were to the fishery in their homes , a pi?ge the allure primitive the summer put in the ?tang community , and the husband and the wife , Distinguished the Negev frustrating hard .
we do we not forget the roots the the country in the Klondike at the Canadian Technology .
the promise of increased , the Prestation national to children , the year 2002 . " no , a - something for the poor or the welfare social , the 500 the provinces increase their taxes . as the
the the least , in the party , we have set a group of the Act , poverty , co - the very competent by the senator Cohen and the characteristically conservatrice the Canadian House of the House as the constituency of Shefford , Diane snow - Jacques , in person of the senator Lavoie - Roux .
the Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Atkins , I regret to interrupt you interrupt , but the 15 minutes the honourable were allou?es the allotted .
you , you to the the time up to continue ?
the senator Atkins :
yes .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Atkins :
i would thank , honourable senators ,
their recommendations . looked the first strong the the institution . a system of protection of the income family and the one rate of tax reasonable the the income of the particular , the Canadian , incomes low and the .
i commend the Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate . the not to be opposed to the request of the senator Gustafson the elimination the meeting of a debate Special the Canadian . the 3 November the .
this debate . the the suffering related to the crisis . the Agriculture and that the absence of a strategy national consistent in the Canadian protect and the latest the situation . the exceptions shaped .
he not be not be necessary to wait that a crisis . naturally , as the government . the so often , the to us to the the the political are d?ficientes or even inexistantes .
as the senator Andreychuk the the importance of the so concise the the years of the debate :
the problem , the motion that the government , not understand that the the right to the Canadian Jewish and try to find the new solutions to the crisis . the Agriculture in the West .
... - ... we are in full crisis .
the one time , the government lack of imagination and the critical kick the understanding of new problems .
the debate that we have the " the Senate . was very useful , but it is that the have the necessary .
the government had a chance to do the subject of the crisis in the Agriculture in the speech , the Throne , and the establishing of new direction and the the parameters to the institution . political to the protection of the exceptions shaped .
the that would have the follow very quickly by the tabling the Canadian House of the House of the legislation to the feasibility these new initiatives .
however , the speech , the Throne not contained not , no - the first , the regions agricultural .
that the Canadian and agricultural the the government has spoken in the speech , the Throne ?
in the the the policy , the question military , the speech . began the one hears very bode , warning our troops as the the little of the peace , the years of the Oklahoma numerous and the Korean .
the listed , in the body of the text and the the CHST to - place . the Canada in the world . , the famous next , the motion probably the most fallacieuse have on the one speech , the Throne :
the government continue to the resulting the the the the Canadian Forces be in the Canadian support the role of the Canada for help to the safety in the world and the the efforcera the increase the ability to the Canadian and the the health of help to ensure the peace and the safety in the the country abroad .
it has the one government , the record our frigates the classroom World quasiment outlive the annulant the Upholder the helicopters provided by the government previous and the highlights the life of our soldiers , the in danger in Representative the Upholder the new search .
the the , he would act injected the the least boost million . $ the most .
he not . the acceptable that the Minister of the National carried the the forces personnel will continue to the make the with the .
lacking the the the the said , he not be not dies the budget , because he is too 4.7 to be restructured .
in a section 59 : " Reforming Canada' s Military the , the Colonel the Canadian Mounted Michel Drapeau urge the government to revitaliser the milice and the contingency , the deficit the number of overall the half , the grain the part of the bureaucracy civil the the Department of the National the ones of the command military , the clean the d?partement the the business public . the National , and the eyebrows properly our soldiers .
the question of the I conseillerais the the government Liberal the end of the the findings of the book white the 1994 , the Defence , the the the the - the article .
the first , the , the government should avoid the subject of up to eyebrows the forces personnel , then , he not the same not began .
certainly , the speech , the Throne about the Canadian need to increase the funding of the research and the the development , the Canada .
i hope only the the funding expected to the research fundamental in the universities , in the the areas that the universities they , the B.C. important .
i believe that the government must move beyond the significance of the fund . the scholarships the the millennium announced by the Minister of the Finance in the budget . there has both years .
i believe that the problem of the debt legal , the end of the thousands of students , the four parts of the country , the be sorted with great .
however , he is to this not only to the resources necessary , but also to the Canadian imagination in the development of a program , but only help all the students secondary , but also the patient to achieve in the students and encourage those who have left prematurely the school the , anyway to the parfaire their education .
i will moment to the opportunity to my inquiry . the years of the next weeks .
the guiding Rachna Gilmore , the the positive recently the price literary the the Governor General , he is important to the deal of only to those who marchent the most baiss?s , but also the most of six the stars and the basis of dream .
this country deserves a government , the one vision of the future , the source of inspiration to the Canadian , the direction of a new century .
we brush a government , spend dream .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the Honourable Rose - Marie Losier - Cool :
honourable senators , I am question to you today , to the honourable to the Canadian my reactions to the speech , the Throne speech in the the opening of the second session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament of the Canada .
my thoughts collection primarily on three themes : the small worker the the Canada , the cong?s parentaux and the safety human , and especially the safety of the children in the country . " the development .
... rald ...
the Canadian first , I am delighted that the priority key to the government . go to the small worker .
i quote the speech , the Throne :
no commitment that we take this day . will the important to the Whelans and the well - be the long term of the corporation Canadian that the Canadian invest our efforts in favour of the very young children .
he considers the the government . provide the the parents and the the families who suffer due to their children . range of the and the average , support for the .
the parents , contributed need to support and the transition for the opposite to their responsibility first , the motion of the other finer the people children .
the well - be quoted the the children another of metal .
in the place , a break parental the 52 weeks will ultimately , the parents of the deal more of their . - nephews , but the powers to the disclaimer the one tierce one .
you agree , honourable senators , the powers of dire the one very young child to a tierce one bear . the pr?parations and the representations to the great majority of the parents .
i can you say , as shown personal , the when I tireless special to the research is recanted , a break the sanctity of six months , it has been very difficult for the the medical the sanctity is the six months and that the most of the garderies agreeable the children , a year .
he is very difficult to find the the places in retreat to a period of six months .
the same , the great majority of the parents wish access to more of support the their motivations the objective a better economic the " and processing exigeantes the the world . the work of the
the first years of life of a child are d?terminantes to his health and the well - be the long term .
honourable senators , the children alive in the minority the purpose of Canada deserve a working particular , we want to a developing widest to all our children and the people families .
this is why he is very important to prosper and the Province the specifically the needs of the children and the the families of the communities French and broaden the the Canada .
the recognition of the identity and the the realities of the French a result of bacterial majeur to the future of the children and the the young the the communities French and broaden the the Canada .
all the children Canadian . the " and the services and the the same facilit?s the development .
cooperative , the importance that we pass the Canadian small worker today , will the Canadian and thousands of children of tremendous their lives of adulthood the advent the Canadian trust , the creative and the determination .
moreover , benefits social weaknesses linked to the support of the development of the young children , the House of Trade and Vancouver , La the the benefits economic well priority .
i quote :
our findings 18.7 that invest in the development of the young children , reducing the problems social , increase the capabilities and extensive a good performance economic .
the it . so , the conclusion next :
cooperative , invest in our children is a good policy of the public .
i commend the House of Trade and Vancouver , the report that position , anti party to the children of the Canada and the Catholic their interests .
honourable senators , you intend will all of the to say , as parents , and as one - parents in the case of some , the Canadian family , ?duque the children and subvient the people needs . the best backbone of the good development of the children .
the education parentale , the acquisition of the Paralympians and the support the the parents and the the families are essential to improve the conditions of life of the children .
is why the the program of development of the young children be a one part basic the Canadian vision of future of the government .
the third and the point of my remarks the Canadian public and the development .
the concepts the development and the safety of the child to the Canada different significantly the the the people are in the country . R .
a workshop looks to the development human , and the NEP the the child , the wishes two concepts basic : the development human and the safety human .
the the separate , the two concepts the undergraduate each .
the the people . the not meant , the , the safety human and the development human confident the the little objective of whom the Canadian fear and the Bar the the need .
the freedom of that the the people can be limited by the two fears , and the the members of the poor and the most vulnerable of the corporation , the poverty and the ins?curit? are related to a vicious circle .
the parent . Skelton , he is the the government to enhance the development human , the the access to a job stable , the the education and the the services social .
the absence of these guarantees of security human a one barrier beware the the development human , the " and viability of income .
if the people . the not done in the power to the corporation the the protection , they are a enclins the invest in the future .
the building a world who feels . the price to the safety human , he is expected by the morosity the most of the h?riteront and that the the protection .
the Convention on the the rights of the child , celebrated a start , a way , the community international could the population of the responsibility to us up all the " and children .
he is the few years , a song popular said :
a child , if you d?croche a dream
while the honourable senators , traditions - we , dream .
livelihood with me , dream that I have to the one day , the so provide the all the children of the planet . the the " You the our own children and the our grandchildren - child .
( the Canadian motion of the senator DeWare , the the name of the senator LeBreton , the debate is adjourned . )
bill to the chronic the decision of some decisions medical
second reading of Debate the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Carstairs , seconded by the Honourable Senator pin , seconded the Canadian second reading of the bill to the S - 2 , the chronic the decision of making medical legitimate respect to the treatment of survival and the the treatment of the pain . - (
the Honourable Senator Lavoie - Roux )
the Honourable Lucie pin :
honourable senators , I rise to speak today , for bringing the bill to the S - 2 , spoke the decision of making medical the the treatment of survival and the soulagement the Canadian pain .
i commend my colleagues who have the part , he is the previous five years , the the committee on Special the the Euthanasia and the assistance to the suicide .
the their entire and the their work . was very productive .
he is now to the necessary to the the bill C S - 2 , effective and that he be adopted without delay .
honourable senators , the one time or the other . our life , he is out of the most of the us to us find the the chevet the one parent or the one friend . patient , in disarray the Canadian eradicate suffering , often to some day , I conclude the their death .
we do wish to a thing , and the motion that this one subject . the the the rest of living in a comfort Covenant , in the peace and the dignity .
unfortunately , he does too often that the comfort and the dignity . the not to the big - you .
having been infirmi?re , I know the challenges faced are facing the professional the Canadian health , the Canadian health care .
we have all the minds to cure .
in the , the the system medical is built around the Canadian concept of care curatifs .
we do we not know , to the availability and , for many of the us , the death is synonyme the failure .
the professional that we are the very conscious of their responsibility to the bill , the so that the route we follow the meeting of death to go to agree .
the the plan , the person - be the Canadian death we terrifie and that we have the Canadian taxpayer the make the " and genuinely the the patients and the people families and the acceptance the feeling of fetal that the death envied .
cooperative , he is as the most of reasons complex the us smoke the preserve the life , the price , the when it is the fight the political the the patient and the the background of the dignity and the the peace .
i am delighted to the bill to the S - 2 , I support with enthusiasm , specifically to the reason that he is the same the the solutions to the many different complex ?voqu?es by the licensing of care of health to the acharner the donor the the lives to the price .
the things . the not clear in the Canadian Tobacco criminal .
the bill to the S - 2 , for the Canadian clarify the Statutory the bill existing and the us to the the best of the patients will relentlessly by the system of care of health and that the coping will protected by the bill and the standards medical to the best be the Canadian and supports the the patients .
the specific , the bill to the S - 2 states the conditions highlight the the plan legal the aviation the the treatment of survival and the the treatment of the pain adequate the abr?ger the life .
in a first time , the bill to the S - 2 makes in a proper clear and easy to understand that he is juridiquement acceptable that the soignant lactation the the patient the the Bureau the approaching evidence of moral the suffering verbal , the so . doses seasons the in abr?ger the life .
the bill to the body that the decision of ethical these drugs is acceptable to the most of the bill simply in the case where the intent is the inevitable the suffering verbal , but not . in the case where the intent is the giving the death .
the bill to the S - 2 makes a prohibited clear in the Canadian the intent : the the is the harshness the suffering verbal and the Canadian surprises the death .
this kind of distinction the following the intent is the Canadian telecommunications , the country , p?nal .
in our right , he is the fault constantly the the Ordre the make .
i do think that the the bill to the S - 2 opening the door to the suicide attended .
i believe the fight the the clarifie the things and protects the professional the Canadian health , and allowing the resulting the the comfort and the Canadian dignity of their patients .
second , the bill to the S - 2 specific that he not there has not the responsibility criminal when a soignant practice the forbearance or the aviation the one aging the floor enrolled that the patient , then , he was in possession of the average , the report of the unfortunate the the meaning .
honourable senators , the journey widest the spirit of the Canada has the right to take the the decisions the the life , the important , the the most of the other , they seem good or Little .
each of the us . the freedom of directors of the treatment medical that he or she is a not want to the so that the the time and the Canadian the Canadian and rehabilitated .
Mr. . the Krever John Sopinka the Canadian Court Supreme the concerns . custom the right in the judgment that he has made in the case Rodriguez .
taxing a single medical the one person who , merely is a mere the violence and the way started the acknowledged the right to hold the aviation or the only the board of a single medical the prolongerait the life .
that the , the bill to the S - 2 . the the clarify the circumstances in which the decisions medical are legal .
the rights and the principles in the are now abinet by our system judicial .
the bill C S - 2 specific article the person to a request of forbearance or the aviation the one aging medical , the the name of a patient who is the not in the Canadian to this decision .
honourable senators , he not enough . the clarify the context legal the the decisions medical , far the that the
in Social , the the bill to the S - 2 Order of Minister of the health and his counterparts provincial the establishing of the lines guidelines Finance in the Canadian health care , the forbearance and the aviation the treatment of survival .
these headlines guidelines are essential to the institution . the practice medical acceptable in the area .
our society . obfuscated the the comfortable the Canadian death .
we in the fear .
we do thing . in the openly and to realize the the Resolution , the Hon. the .
why the would the the words , the people who soignent ?
why the northern the the the the people facilities the the skills inn?es the Canadian death , just the the fact , and your ?
the bill to the S - 2 require the the the professional the Canadian health receive a better training , care palliative , learners how and when inevitable the pain and rehabilitated a single the floor .
they must learn to apprivoiser the difficulties and the rhetoric that a medical seeks raises .
the bill to the S - 2 link the historical legal and social the the decisions medical .
i think that the bill to the S - 2 , to many of the the fundamental and the needs of the patients that relentlessly in the system of health to the their comfort and their dignity that lawyers , for the Canadian environmental the Canadian life , the objective of the professional the Canadian health , the " top , the the patients and the people families the right to decide . the their position of the when the death offered .
honourable senators , each family , the Canada is helping by this issue .
we know , and the somewhat a the the view , studied needless unnecessarily and the the desire not the not been fuelled because the the soignant knew that the care palliative or addressed the be pursued in justice .
the bill to the S - 2 will welcomed Right as a the professional the Canadian health , by the families Canadian .
i commend the senator Carstairs , I wish to good proceedings to the committee , discutera the this issue .
the Honourable Mabel DeWare :
honourable senators , we do we not the intent of competition the study of the bill to the , but I believe that the the senator Lavoie - Roux will include we , weekly next .
i believe that we must be allowed the opportunity to speak to this issue .
i will therefore adjourn the debate in the name .
( the Canadian motion of the senator DeWare , the the name of the senator Lavoie - Roux , the debate is adjourned . )
bill to the Act , perquisitions and the saisies international
second reading of Second the the debate
... 1540 ...
this bill to the one . was introduced by my honourable friend , the senator Beaudoin , the 3 March the , the Canadian the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament .
he is maintained name to the Order of September the prior to have examined the reading of the second reading .
honourable senators , in 1982 , our country . is fresher the one tool powerful to protect the Canadian of the intervention abusive the the state in their lives private .
he is a the Canadian Charter Canadian of the rights and Freedoms .
the article 32 the this last the the "
1 ) The the charter the GST :
the motion to the Parliament and the the government . the Canada for all the areas relevant to the Parliament , including those who conducted the land of the Yukon and the Territories the the North - Western ;
b ) the Canadian Parliament and the the government . each province , for all the areas relevant to this Parliament .
the article 8 , this Charter the the year Canadian . the " the protection against the bone , the perquisitions or the saisies abusive .
the bill to the S - 4 to follow the extent a question is the right to the the the policy , the application of the article 8 . Consequently , the article 3 , the bill to the S - 4 specific , and I quote , the "
the Canadian to a request of perquisition or the fall , the foreign the the Canada , a company or authority foreign or international the the purpose of a commission announced the one offence , the authority occurrence , a request to a judge or a judge the peace to the Senate decided a guideline During the request .
this provision . the purpose of protecting the individuals , the the Canada , the one perquisition or a foetus abusive the would be the the foreign the the Canada .
when a citizen will the subject of a commission pursuing the one pr?sum?e offence to a bill federal , the Hill General sake will get the authority pre - a judge , as the motion of the last of a commission to the Canada .
it is firmly before the sending the one letter of the Canadian assistance to the authorities of a place in the authority to get the documents the the odd in the country .
honourable senators , the bill to the the lowest of the findings of the Court Supreme the the Canada in the Supreme Schreiber .
memories of facts .
the intim? , the motion citizen Canadian , r?sidait the the Canada , the in Europe , and the experience of the accountability to the Swiss Banking Corporation , 1946 .
the government suisse the recipient the letter of the and a guideline the summer made During the fall of documents and records the the accountability the the intim? .
no mandate of perquisition or any other leave judicial not had pr?alablement was fighting the the Canada before the introduction of the letter of the .
the Court federal and the Court of Appeal federal had " by the affirmative the this issue .
the case was reaching the call the Canadian Court Supreme the the Canada .
the 28 May 1998 , the Krever , Chief of the most colourful court of the country , Antonio Lamer , and that the Krever Claire - to the Dub? the answer the Canadian why the Canadian . the right question , Karl H . Schreiber .
the the Krever , Chief , a guideline asking the fall of documents banking , the by the Department of the Justice of the Canada and sent to the authorities Swiss , not was not obvious , ultimately the application of the provision of the Charter .
the letter of the Canadian assistance . was a not interfere the the article 8 , the Charter and the the rights of Schreiber .
the Krever Lamer wrote the the rule 24 , his decision , and I quote :
the human the subject of the foreign or the the documents in a state foreign short the risk that a surprising or perquisition the preparatory under the the legislation . the state .
it is the not to pin the northern the " is that this is the rarity not , if the legislation . the state in the SLBA clear the types the .
the Krever - Heureux - Dub? , issue of the name of the majority of the courts , was also the opinion that the Charter not to interprovincial not to a government foreign .
in the tree , the actions of the authorities Swiss not , therefore not subject to the provisions departure , supported . De the , it is the interprovincial not to the letter of the Canadian assistance , because of Canada . the not been the Canadian fall or the Canadian perquisition .
in a difference dissidente , the judges Frank Iacobucci and Charles D . Gonthier the agreement that the government suisse not the not the the first subject to the respect to the provisions of the Charter .
the fight , they have however esteemed Mr. Schreiber experience of the expectations reasonable . the Canadian life private .
the , the authorities Canadian have had to a mandate before the message the letter of the " and management Swiss .
the minority . " agreement that the article 8 , the Charter the interprovincial in the case of Schreiber .
in determining , the fall of the documents banking demand?e by the Department of the Justice , to pre the increased rights , the right Mr. Schreiber the the respect to his life private .
honourable senators , several of the honourable the Chinese the the reserves as the Canadian Grain the the provisions of the former Bill , the S - 24 .
some believe that he imposera the provisions of the Charter Canadian of the rights and Freedoms in the Canadian and the the right to the life private the Canadian and country in the request of assistance to the years of investigations convergence .
i wish to you else immediately .
this bill to the not the no change extraterritorial .
the struggle the honourable convince the this the Canadian . , we must the first hospital the the principles which guident the application of the article 8 , the Charter in the investigation convergence .
since 1982 , the Court Supreme the the Canada has sp?cifi? in many rulings the principles which must define the scope of the article 8 and the way of the ports excursions .
Dansl' v. R . R Schreiber , the Krever Frank Iacobucci Compensating that the text of the article 8 investigate very little of face on the scope and the subject of the interests that he is the protection .
in 1984 , in the Supreme Hunterc. SouthamInc. , the Krever Brian Dickson the positioning to the first time , the Canadian the article 8 . It the employee of the protection given to the people , the intrusions justified the the state in their lives private .
the fight , the scope of the right . limited by the character reasonable the the armistice that the one person in the Canadian and the the life private in the circumstances of a matter given the
the Krever Dickson the bloodstream , this approach in Hunter the the pages 159 and 160 , and I quote :
the guarantee of protection against the bone , the perquisitions and the saisies abusive not to the one waiting reasonable .
this damage the the right guaranteed by the article 8 , the it be stated the Canadian tax why , the motion ? " - that as a protection against the bone , the perquisitions and the saisies the Competition the , or the Canadian tax positive as the right to the northern the expectation the " the protection of the life private , Beauchesne that he is appreciate the , in a situation given the the right to the public . the not be importun? by the government must CPAs the not to the right to the government . the immiscer in the life private the the particular to the result of the and , including , the government . the Canadian the bill .
in determining , since the Supreme Hunter the concept of the armistice reasonable . the Canadian life private the motion of principle structurel allowing the basis , the article 8 , applies and protects the rights of a person in a situation given the
in a second time , the Court Supreme the interpretation in many decisions the article 8 , with the effect of protecting the people , and the Canadian and Documentation or the the things .
this principle marked a change is in the subject of the right to the life private .
this section of the article 8 . was limited or by the concept of ownership or by the right being the federal - intrusion .
in 1993 , it has brought the Court Supreme the agreements , in the Supreme R . R Plant , the one person has a ruling reasonable . the Canadian life private respect to a whole of information biographiques the Order , the existing the other people to the subject .
the Krever John Sopinka , the objective for the majority , the said : " the page 293 the the Supreme , and I quote :
... - ... to the Canadian protection constitutional the GST , the information before the be the nature personal and confidentielle .
the the the values the - underlying the dignity , the integrity and the self that he put , he is normal that the article 8 , the Charter protects a whole of information biographiques the Order , the the particular be , in a society free and democratic , whatever may and relying the Canadian knowledge of the state .
he could the the act of information Honourable the code of the details Herv the the way of life and the choice personal the the individual .
he seems to clear , the Canadian court , the the subject Main the the right to the life private is the result of the Canadian a surprising , the one perquisition or the one fall abusive the the individual .
the place where this bill is ex?cut?e is a vital .
since the Supreme Hunter , the Court Supreme the criteria that the article 8 , for the Canadian protect , before the fact , the rights relating to the life private .
he not be not be used to valider or condemn , after the fact , the intrusions the the state in the life private the one person .
in the meaning , the courts . the " the article 8 , section based on the principle , the manner in the the the Organization more than a simple ban , the bone , the perquisitions or the saisies abusive .
as the the bloodstream the Krever Gerard - Forest , 1998 , the Supreme R . R Dyment , if the right to the life private the the individual must be sufficient , we do we are to the not to make this right to the the the fact , violating .
it is inherent the Canadian concept of protection against the bone , the perquisitions and the saisies abusive .
honourable senators , as you the you , each individual feels a great importance to his life private and the the average of the protection .
the character of the concept of life private is such as the beginning that the , the increased rights , the person rarely the ground in the entirety .
the result , for the the article 8 protects effectively the armistice reasonable the one person in the Canadian and the the life private , he must produce the effects before the enforcement of the delving , the Canadian perquisition or the Canadian fall , and the Canadian disclosure of the information .
the this protection , he not have the very little of value in the the guarantee of the right to the life private the the not to interprovincial that the suspending , after the fact , the the information results of a way abusive .
this section of the article 8 , the one form concrete in the requirement respecting the the authority judicial pre that the doctrine the Krever Dickson in the Supreme Hunter .
in this case , he Compensating that the court " , in a first time , weigh his decision of the right to the human drop to the respect to his life private and the Canadian the public . the state of the respect to the application of the bill .
the Canadian , the the was necessary to determine the time when this approval should be granted , a court .
section had to the Canadian prevent the bone and the perquisitions justified the the provinces . the fatalities .
it is looking be accomplished that the one system of authority pre before the fall and the by the inclusion of a validation shipowners .
in determining , the the most colourful court of the country , the article 8 , then , ultimately .
the , the right to the individual , the respect to his life private and the public . the state in the Canadian the Canadian the bill . soupes?s by the application of the process of authority judicial pre , before the enforcement of the delving , the Canadian perquisition or the Canadian fall considered .
honourable senators , the courts have also cern? the concept of character brings to the meaning of the article 8 . In the , for the one delving , a perquisition or a foetus the qualifi?e the " reasonable to the only not to the abusive the , it is , the Canadian Court Supreme the the Canada in the Supreme Hunter the 1984 :
... - ... to the pr?alablement allowed by a person neutre and impartiale the right to the way judicial , the Canadian and provide reasonable and probable , the individual insinuations not the not speed , and the preparatory the manner reasonable and the abusive .
the Krever Antonio Lamer the jurisdictional , in 1987 , in the Supreme R . R Collins , three other walks the need be respected the the meaning of the bill to the one delving or perquisition instituted , of the Senate . considered to abusive the " the meaning of the article 8 :
... - ... it is being allowed by the bill ; the bill contains not be not to the same be abusive ; and the delving not be not have been instituted the one way abusive .
the , a surprising , perquisition or fall d?clar?e abusive will very questionable be valid as the reasonable to the the meaning of the article 1 , the Charter .
the " now , the courts have the one distinction between the saisies in the part of business convergence and the saisies in the context of business administrative .
the criterion the the case Hunter set before the GST rigoureusement the the saisies in the part of business convergence .
the Court Supreme the so indicated , in the Supreme McKinlay hauling the 1990 , the most of rights of the right to the life private is the , the the protection of the Supreme Hunter be a respected .
in the case Schreiber , the judges Gonthier and Iacobucci the concerns a difference dissidente , as I , I mentioned , earlier , who , this , the opinion that the fall of accountability banking the the foreign the the Canada , the authority judicial pre , seem the right to the protection of the life private .
in coming to this conclusion , the Krever Iacobucci the motion seconded the the interpretation quite and Liberal the the article 8 , the Charter that I have expressed the early .
the basis , the letter of the Canadian assistance was contrary to the provisions of the article 8 , the Krever has used to render contained in the Supreme Plant by the Krever Sopinka .
they had to the Canadian determine whether a person in the one , respecting the some information , a ruling reasonable . the Canadian life private , elongated , the Canadian protection of the article 8 . " the page 293 the this case , he has written , and I quote :
the examination of factors such the nature of the information , the Canadian and liability of the part divulguant the information and the part of r?clamant the terms , the place where they have been viewed , the conditions in which they have been relatively and the state of the spot by the subject of the inquiry , the Canadian pond?rer the rights social the Canadian protection of the dignity , the the integrity and the the self - the human and the application effective the Canadian law .
many principles can be d?gag?s the this section of the application of the article 8 . De first , the authorities relating to the application of the bill be a sensibles the the right to a person to the respect to his life private , respecting the one of the information biographiques the Order , the inclusion .
the existence of a ruling reasonable . the Canadian life private d?clenche the application of the protection down by the article 8 . When this waiting there and that the - the motion danger by a intrusion aging by the government , the authorities relating to the application of the bill . held in the one leave judicial before the act .
applying the part contextuel perpetrators by the Krever Sopinka in the Supreme Plant , the Krever Iacobucci the agreement that the intim? the publication a moment waiting to the respect to his inalienable banking Swiss .
these games using the the details personal the Canadian Human drop , including his in financial and the the choice Herv the Hon. way of life .
second , the looking restructuring the reports the profiles of the bank and the shelters the relationship of trust the , presented the Supreme Plant , it , the one more , waiting in the Canadian life private respect to the information , because the
finally , if the information convention was easily availability , intrusion or without the candidate the one third , he is that the least , well , he is that Islamic the Canadian life private the Canadian Human concern?e .
in the tree , the information . have the results by intrusion in the bank suisse and with the candidate the one third , the the underlying the indication that the intim? the one waiting reasonable . the Canadian life private respect to the information .
the most , as the Krever Iacobucci the main the the rule 56 the the Supreme Schreiber , and I quote :
the Orders of perquisition and the fall , the policy by the government . the Canada , the introduction of a request shortfall the the government . the Swiss , would the absence of accountants of the two of the
the request the summer introduced in the part of a commission Canadian , the person - that assume , would avid , the the Canada , the Canadian and prosecutions raisers the one Canadian a violation to the Code offence Canadian .
the right to the life private , such as it has been advised in order to the Charter , protects the people and the Canadian and Documentation .
the effect on the individual the one perquisition and the Canadian fall of documents banking is the same , the Canadian perquisition and the fall have the " the Canada or in Switzerland .
the intim? the one waiting reasonable . the Canadian life private respect to the information banking , the important , the the the odd the accountability .
he is the " the reasonable , the my opinion , the the intim? the attende the the the the authorities Canadian . so directing the assistance of the authorities Swiss to obtain the documents banking , Switzerland , to a certain form of authority judicial pre the the Canada .
the Krever the then " by the affirmative the Canadian . the Schreiber and the one recommended the the disciplining the the legislation Canadian to correct this impr?cision .
this is exactly what the the bill to the S - 4 to the work .
the same , the Krever Wetston the Canadian Court federal and the Krever Linden the Canadian Court of Appeal federal , upon the the same conclusion that the judges dissidents the Canadian Court Supreme in the Supreme Schreiber .
honourable senators , he is clear that each of the particular .
this is why the article 4 , the bill to the S - 4 provides that the Krever appropriate , the person to the request former parte , the plight that it is consistent the the standards determined by the Charter Canadian of the rights and Freedoms .
if such is the case , he can make a guideline During the Canadian approach that the , and that the demands the article 5 , the bill to the .
honourable senators , before the introduction of the other provisions of my bill to the , I wish to the question of the application extraterritorial .
in the Supreme Schreiber , the Krever , Chief of the Court Supreme the fact reference to the application extraterritorial the Canadian Charter .
the the make , he has used to rulings Terry and Harrer , the affirmaient clear that the proposal that the Charter not the not the application to the foreign the the Canada .
these two Affairs underline the Canadian conduct of authority American the , unnecessary the the United - United , they amount of the statements of suspects the one way , the well , consistent the the hell of Russel American , were deficits with the Charter .
in the two linguistic , the Court Supreme the agreement that the Charter not win unregulated the actions progress by the the authorities foreign in a country abroad .
this conclusion . enjoyed with the article 32 the Canadian Charter , the CRTC the application of this last , over the and the the government . the Canada , and the " the Parliament and the the government . each province , the
it is also consistent , as the the indicated the Krever Beverley McLachlin in the Supreme Terry , with the principle of the courtesy international .
the Canadian Justice , he was unrealistic the the northern the the the the authorities foreign those and observent the legislation . the Canada .
honourable senators , in the case Schreiber , the situation was achieved .
the , the Krever Wetston the Canadian Court federal , rejected the point following the the fact , will affirmativement the Canadian . raised by the intim? default the ports , Charter extraterritorialement .
he not the ever has the question of legislation on the respect to the right to the life private the Canadian Switzerland or the the government . the country in the Canadian fall of the documents banking .
the conduct misjudgment the the tree is the preparation and the sending the Canadian letter of the by the the RCMP Canadian .
these members were clearly subject to the right Canadian , there was the Canadian Charter , the the trade , the Canada and , in the most of the case , the the foreign the the Canada .
they were far convention , the the article 32 the Canadian Charter , in the the representatives of the power executive of the " the Canadian the Canada , the
the most is , because the people were Canadians , he not there was no reason , the fact , the courtesy international .
the looking . the northern the the the people who , the Canadian , there was the Constitution .
he not the not unreasonable the papers and their that they the globe .
it is particularly true , the RCMP who agissaient the the name of the Hill General and the , the fact , could have the the responsibility additional arising the Canadian psyche particular , this theme .
i wish to mention that the author of the letter . the not the approval the content of the letter , the one of the senior .
yet , as I , mentionnais the early , this letter Compensating clear that the request of assistance the to the Canadian continue to the platoon .
it could give the " the the court to the Canada , a citizen Canadian .
in the judgment , the Krever Wetston the agreement to 1995 944 , and I quote :
... - ... if the intim? the be pursued the the Canada , I do see no why he not be not have a " and benefits accessoires the Canadian Charter
in determining , he has signed the the intim? the one waiting reasonable . the Canadian life private .
after the Somalis this conclusion and the socio the nature of the information , they were saisies , he has signed the in order to the article 8 , the utmost the Anglican the one leave pre the Canadian a holder the part court impartial before the Canadian letter of the so that exp?di?e .
he is therefore clear that the Charter the GST the way general , the types letters of the .
some of the honourable will tent?s the " that the letter of the not . no fault the one of offshore the the article 8 . You utiliserez probably the example of the Orders , the " a province Canadian to withhold the assistance of a place in the view of the enforcement of a surprising , perquisition or fall .
now , the authorities , hidden the types requests the assistance . the not to obtain the authority judicial pre under the the article 8 before the message to the .
he not to apply not as the Canadian the not the not been received , at the the need to a mandate During the delving , the perquisition or the fall .
the this point , I contend said .
in the context Canadian , the authorities , hidden the request know that the - the will the subject of a review judicial before the enforcement of the delving , perquisition or fall by the
in the context of the case Schreiber , the the contrary , the not the not informed the courts that the authorities Swiss have examined the touchstone of the request of delving , the perquisition , or the fall introduced by a government foreign .
we do know that the most what form benefits a monopoly the .
however , the the reference to the " the idea expectation the the the the authorities Swiss authorities , the Canadian the .
as the the reference the Krever Iacobucci , the the rule 57 of the Supreme Schreiber , and I quote :
he is something that formaliste the agreements , the Orders application to the Canada for the the CCN the assistance made by a province , a place provides the answer completely the Canadian . raised in the tree .
the application of a approach formaliste or legalistic is contrary to the jurisprudence respecting the Canadian Charter , the acceptance been mothballed that the rights guaranteed by the text be a interpr?t?s generously and the basis of the subject concluded .
he is the appropriate to apply to the question . approach based on the the principles .
this arises is consistent the the interpretation quite and Liberal time application by our Court of the article 8 , the Canadian , they , the citizen the right to be sufficient , the primary the the government to his expectations reasonable . the Canadian life private the .
the not apply the article 8 to the letter of the the have to the Canadian to pick outright the one of chaises the the right to the intim? the the respect to his life private .
i am that the , the government . the situation international the beginning , the way . we redistribute that the principle of the authority judicial pre the summer observed and , in determining , the one of the pierres angulaires the the analysis based on the article 8 , the omise .
... 1610 ...
the Canadian . protected the the Canada , the Charter Canadian of the rights and Freedoms .
honourable senators , the Canadian the debate on the former Bill C S - 24 , several of the honourable substantially raised the question of the cost important linked to the application of this bill .
i believe , the Canadian light of the CCN the the years identify , the the process of authority judicial pre will be properly managed and that he not cause not the cost important to the government , the
the the numbers provided by the Department of the Justice of the Canada in the statement the Place the Adieu the memory of the Hill General of the Canada in the case Schreiber , the Canada has made 79 requests the 1992,80 requests the 1993 , Issue requests the 1994 , 109 requests the 1995 and doubling requests the 1996 .
we do we not the numbers of the years 1997 and 1998 , but I hope that the representatives of the Department of the Justice will we are supplied to time in the the study of the bill to the in committee .
i wish to mention that the bill to the S - 24 , the not interfere the the treaty the assistance step , tie the Canada , some U.S. foreign in the part of investigations administrative or convergence .
the Canada has signed the the treaty the the kind avec16 country .
i wish to address the question of the definitions that the " is the the article 2 , the bill to the S - 24 .
a officer public foreign is a person who cent of office legislative , administrative or legal the one of foreign or the revised a function public , the public . a state foreign .
this is the not me , I consider this definition .
it is done . the meeting of the article 2 , the Act , the corruption the RCMP public foreign , the the positive the Royal Assent the 10 December 1998 .
the authority occurrence drop by this bill is the Hill General of the Canada , the Hill General of a province and the human or authority separate , the the Canada , the the investigation provisions the the heat the the legislation federal and the their barristers .
this definition the lowest of the meeting in the Act , the corruption the RCMP public foreign having physicians .
the heat involved , the bill to the are those infected with the the legislation federal .
this bill to the motion . optic the the legislation and the the regulations federal .
the June of the Krever appropriate varies the Canadian province .
the " to judge the peace , 24 , the drop by the article 2 , the Code offence .
finally , the bill to the not the not the effect r?troactif .
in conclusion , honourable senators , the bill to the S - 4 will the so that the article 8 will be handed when he can help to discourage the ceremony the one may purport by the the RCMP Canadian , the so , clerical the the RCMP brings a country abroad to make the assistance .
the provisions of the bill to the agreements in the the the Canada . will not impose the conditions standards proc?durales the Canadian and the .
the fight , he responded to the the the right to a ruling reasonable . the Canadian life private the thoughtless , the Canadian delving or perquisition the " the Canada or the the foreign to the request of RCMP Canadian .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , the senator Nolin we , the one treaty legal . fouill? the the the Organization , the the , the subject of the bill to the S - 4 .
i must say that he I will a number of the well that is that he has said , but I would be the " he question . the following .
in listening the intervention , he I was struck the the said that the Constitution says , a protection is basically .
the senator would the the the please the limitations the reasons , increased the adoption of the bill to the S - 4 ?
i know , the the the special a number of the well , the procedures for the provinces . , but , the following his comments , the interpretation that the courts have given the the article 8 provides a protection command full of the right to the life private and also a protection against the court abusive , the the least , the " in Justice of the the case Schreiber and I have proof .
the senator Nolin :
the question concerning directly the importance .
i hope that we can refer the bill to the " a committee , because it is precisely that the the us we to the
this is to this reason that I have cited the many cases heard by the Court Supreme .
in the broadsides , the courts secure the 18 years in the decisions the the article 8 , the Charter .
he has learned . the time to establish the various aspects of the protection in order to the article 8 . - court . the way a careful the basis that only the authorities Canadian would enable the Canadian Charter .
however , the judgment dissident the the two judges will the in the meaning of the the I move the the Parliament , the the their analysis of the article 8 .
this is a question complex , because it does the the Parliament version , the protection meeting in the article 8 the Act , individual or the the place where is perp?tr? the act .
i am the opinion , as the two judges dissidents in the case Schreiber , the the motion of the individual because the Canadian Charter protects the individual , but the place where is perp?tr? the act .
he is the in the with the years , the many decisions and a significant outlines the Canadian . " the Court Supreme , and the case Schreiber is , the my humble opinion , contradictoire .
i move that we corrigions that the
in the case Schreiber , for streamline a matter complicated , the government suisse is only a officer .
all the other parts conducts in this whole of facts are Canada .
the request the summer the by the authorities Canadian the one individual Canadian to a future use officers , the Canada .
i do know that if I rise to answer get the blood matter .
i am sure that you wholehearted better this situation complex when you embark read my speech .
i hope that the Senate will the agreement with me to the this issue , referred to the committee .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Cools , the debate is adjourned . )
privileges , Standing and Orders
third report of the committee , Sittings of the article
the Order of the Order Order :
the Canadian the third report of the Committee on the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules ( a the privilege of the senator Kinsella ( , the " the Senate 24 November 99 . - ( - ( Senator Austin , P ) .
the Honourable Jack Austin :
the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules , examined this issue of privilege to his first met following the Committee , the Senate .
in the third report , the committee , the the the regulation the be in the Canadian should a meeting of camera closed . the old necessary to examine properly the question of privilege .
the Clerk of the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules and the leading clarifying Chopra and the the vow two questions .
he was the requested , the first , the the commendably that the committee based its testimony to camera closed or in public , then , if the union and the - the classic a changing the the the Canadian . the privilege raised by the senator Kinsella , studied the the committee , the time that the grief is heard by the board of the relationship of the in the basis public .
Mr. . Chopra the answer to the belief that the the Senate . is not a court the following the rules normal the Canadian and the
he believes that , in the the approach policy , the Chair of the committee on the be public .
he not broad no objection to the the the two reviews have the in the time .
he carried the the Clerk that he is that a review the camera closed . is the the advantage of human and that he not the way to hide .
he wishes only the the examination of the committee be fair , public and quite thorough to deal of the .
in the Canadian answer to the two questions , he has also reached that the lawyer the accompagnerait the entire meeting scheduled by the committee Standing , and that he addressed the the Department of the acharner , he , the following .
honourable senators , as the question . dispute efficient , the so , the Standing should sit in camera closed , and that the witness the question . broad no deemed to participate in a hearing Chair , I ask that the recommendation of the one hearing the camera closed , the Journals in the third report , the withdrawn and that is debatable the criteria as complete .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , the leave is the it leave of mitigating this section ?
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I am amazed the suggested the chairman of the committee that the that the fact , the and consulting the one witness .
i do believe that the the substance to a witness the Whole how a committee should proceed and the sidelines conditions .
the my opinion , he come to the committee , determine and the the witness the acceptance the conditions .
he I would be the contrary , the product .
i am very surprised the suggested the chairman of the committee to the Canadian recommendation of the Canadian meeting of camera closed the withdrawn - I know why it has been introduced - the consultation the one witness .
this is the the committee that he come to decide how he should proceed , and the witnesses be the plier the the decision , what the it be .
i am asking if the lawyers should move the witnesses ; but it is a question school .
the witness fixed the guideline of the appearance , including the the subject of the so , managed would public or the camera closed .
this decision should get the the committee .
the senator Austin :
honourable senators , I leave of you to consider this as a question and the struggle the , will ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Austin :
honourable senators , I am the opinion that he is quite proper that the committee take the consideration of risk which the exposerait a witness the the , the one issue of privilege .
the course , the committee will the decision .
however , I think that he would imminently fair that the committee take the Canadian the risk which could the scenario a witness and that he was the knowledge how he does make .
i think that he would also fair that the committee Standing , the the witness the possibility of the sincerity the point of the .
honourable senators , the witness the the intent of subpoenas and I believe that he appear before the committee Standing Tuesday next .
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , I wish question . the " the Honourable Senator Austin .
when he has the the facts , the senator has said that the witness the said , the Clerk that he addressed the the Department of the the acharner , he , the following the .
that means to the acharner , he , the following the in Yiddish the the consequences for the Employment the the appear before a committee on the
the senator Austin :
honourable senators , I rapportais simply that the the witness was said , the Clerk of the committee .
i do think that the I should be the blood matter , since the the the I could say naive the one given the
i do subject . the other information on the meaning Mr. Chopra did give the this " .
the senator Oliver :
the Honourable Senator addressed the the the the Senate victim of reprisal and that he is outlining the Canadian serious effects ?
the senator Austin :
i thank the Honourable Senator the " to the answer to the senator Lynch - Staunton .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
he I would be the would have the remaining to the so , the Hon. the , he extended the way to camera closed .
he has failed . the the 1950 only the Canadian motion . was moved the this chamber .
if a witness told that the the the acharner , he , he I would be the should get a little more of information on this confirmation the the place . we talk of a ou? - that the the the the summer said , the Clerk of the committee and the the waves explanation of the chairman .
if the hearing the amount , we will come to a witness the the editorship attack , or the the expenditure the Canadian and threats , or the lead to the Employment because the the testimony before a committee on the
is the the Canadian the the us expected Tuesday next ?
the senator Austin :
honourable senators , we see , the the the flow Tuesday .
the fact the refl?tera the comments of the witness .
i do believe that the " earner what the the Senate to question , the the issues hypoth?tiques .
the course , I have discussed with the senator Kinsella , his question of privilege .
the chamber . the Honourable Senator Lynch - Staunton . the Canadian the committee , there was the chairman of the , the senator Grimard .
they are the the armed the year , decision , and support the third report debated . the committee .
if I do I do so , this , the Honourable Senator , and that I must look a one of the , I wish to the " the use .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I thank the chairman of the committee Standing the the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules to the work of the committee to this regard .
we have had the opportunity to discuss words , there has some day .
fortunately , he not to a not the one of the one of offensive the meeting of the " In Camera to hear a ) , the means share of the information relevant to the work of the committee .
otherwise , the senator , retrouverait in the situation difficult the , the in the fight the meeting of committees to camera closed , he should or d?sirerait , attending .
he is a the one of the hypothetical , but the events optimistic by the senator Austin I indicated .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave the summer leave .
honourable - the " the Senate . withdraw this section ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the article is withdrawn . )
the freedom religious the China , report with the pactes international the the United Nations
inquiry - Debate the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the inquiry of the Honourable Senator Wilson , calling the attention of the Senate on the freedom religious the China , report with the pactes international the the United Nations . - (
the Honourable Senator Austin , P )
the Honourable Jack Austin :
honourable senators , the 1998 24 November 99 , the Honourable Senator Revised Wilson the attention of the Canadian the Senate on the freedom religious the China , report with the pactes international the the United Nations .
the comments reposaient the the vast experience of the business religious .
our honourable friend has done as mod?rateur the Canadian the Church united the the Canada .
the intervention was the " a travelling , the the Honourable Senator has made in the the member of the delegation of the Council Canadian of the churches , the the fact , during the China , the lines October the the notice November .
many of Canadians , this same the the Senate and across the the Canada , the interested the close to the issues related to the rights of the human , particularly to the way , these values , the are directed the country own concept of the relationship human and the Canadian stability social , are respected in China .
this unfortunate the Canadian China is inexorable to the simple the the Canadian public . the country is about boomers per - the people World .
the disadvantages of securities and the practical the one , the percentage of the people of the world . essential to the institution . the corporation human peaceful and Conservative , the international World .
the the Canadian and evidence clear that indicate that the China is advocating the respect to the rights of the human the the public . the corporation Chinese to the Bar the creative the the people Chinese in the emphasis economic and social the Canadian China .
the report of the senator Wilson is , the my opinion , just , balanced and accurate , the the the policy , the freedom of reprisal the China .
in the , the invitation lanc?e the the Council Canadian of the churches to the the the recurring , China and at the freedom of reprisal is , in itself , a " the Canadian political the Canadian China , to a discussion Chair and a dialogue demonstrates the the subject of the freedom of reprisal as a the the issues basic the the rights of the human .
as the entire society , the right draw the the limits the Canadian freedom to the guarantee that the freedom it is the person be pr?serv?e and improved .
how to this balance is a eternal paradox .
a judge British the the century the the in the judge a result , the d?fendeur the cri? the the gun in a chain bond? .
he not there was not the staircases , but the people who were in the room have paniqu? and many have been injured in the ruant to the Pentagon .
the Defence , all?gu? the right to the freedom of Senator , the right to say that any event that any the fault the " and consequences .
in the judgment , the Krever has signed the human not win the use of the freedom of Senator to say deliberately or the way entailed a mensonge the risk of insulin the the wrong to the other people of a way that a man reasonable the Far .
the idea that the the Chinese the the limits the Canadian freedom of reprisal is based on the the values cultural and the the experience historic different the the powers .
the size of the China and his vuln?rabilit? the Canadian dissension Economy , the the Soviet by the the foreign and the well , and considered engendrent the greed the the authority segregation and the the authority rock to do r?gner the peace and the Order .
the traditions of responsibility collective exist for the the centuries and , in the , the summer dictate to ensure the safety and the floor of the unity social , the the Senate . family , the village , the coincidental or the province .
the control of the behaviour of the individuals was earmarked as crucial to the safety and the the well - be the the unity .
we reconna?trions this predatory in the maxime the loss Stewart Mill , the outset the political social British as a " the most of happiness to the most of the " .
obviously , in the fact , the autoritarisme the Adieu often the the values human that is the attitude arbitrary , this attitude the not prepared no action . protection against the Non , the immoralit? and the only the respect to the practical and the the standards ensure the the Ethics .
the the Canadian China , far the be the country . the corrompu the the world , the corruption , is still a problem serious in a society , from the uncertainty the transition of a global released the rending the the model marxiste the one based on into Republic , the motion ? " - that a global the market . the meaning the us the invigoration , but a global , led the manner strategic and r?glement?e the the way of plans quinquennaux and the government . monitoring of the return .
the the not the no doubt that the system , the Canadian China , based on the autoritarisme , he is also true that the Chinese the accommodent , the people Freedoms economic and Technology and that they not have been the so well over the the centuries .
the government . the China . ultimately the - be not the same accounting that the government . the Canada for managing , but it has truly the latest the life of the people to the place . the walk the tree the group of the power , as it is the in the other countries .
the Canada . is committed to many fronts with the China , the the fishing , the commitment growing the the respect to the rights of the human in the meaning individualiste the us the invigoration .
we have the the groups of the marked the Canadian practice legal and legal the gastrointestinal the focus on the the values as the burden of the evidence , the right to keep the silent , the independence of the power judicial and the role of a system of counsel legal independent .
as the honourable senators , knowing , in 1998 , the Parliament of the Canada has developed on ethnic a continuing basis Relations - Chinese the police with the Congress national the the people .
two meetings of Parliament , the place , a the China , in November 1998 , the reason , faxes 12 parliamentarians Canadian , there was the the honourable , and a place when the the members important to the Congress national the the people have visited Ottawa , Toronto , Winnipeg and Victoria to exchange of the opinions with the the legislators federal and provincial .
among the issues broader , he is the in the practice legislation , the role of our leader official , the limits applied to the government in the process legislative , the rules of the and the rest .
the Chinese are very involved in the understanding .
the country side , we are involved in the allocation they per?oivent the idea that a debate peaceful not leading not to a instability social and political , but exacerbates the stability .
the honourable senators , knowing the - be not the the committee Joint Canada - China , the rights of the human the summer created by the Minister of the Foreign Affairs , Lloyd Axworthy , in April 1997 .
this committee to the relationship a dialogue Standing the the rights of the human of the two of the Republic . particularly the focus on the Covenant international Covenant the the rights civilian and political and the Covenant international Covenant the the rights economic , social and Cultural , the the two of the sign?s but who is the not yet been ratifi?s by the Congress national the the people .
among the issues specific broader by the committee Joint , he is the the rights of the women and the the children , the rights of the fray , the new rules of the criminal , the collaboration bilateral the the rights of the human , the collaboration international the the rights of the human , the rights of the minority and the the Aboriginal Peoples , and the freedom of reprisal .
the recent visits the China , the senator Wilson , Chair of the delegation Canadian the the liberties religious , the motion of the the auspices of the committee Joint .
he I must also make the the committee Joint is time active and working . week .
the House Canadian the Canadian the committee . the documentation the the ground in the province of the Yunnan , the the " is a great many of minorities ethnic , and the the Tibet , the the debate . She the Canadian . the Canadian freedom of reprisal .
the House Chinese the Canadian the committee . the " they visited Ottawa , Winnipeg and Whitehorse .
the question of Falun Gong the summer Battle the Canadian a meeting of the committee Joint the Beijing the 8 et9 November 99 . - 4 November , the question . was raised the new , the senator Wilson and his delegation , they have met the the officials Allison the the constituency of the Department of the Foreign Affairs , China , the Beijing .
it , the , he is the understanding that he is a myriad of the related to the practical convincing the federal - rights of the human the attireront our attention of the months , in the
the CTAISB reforms economic , the in China , the the country . unrest social and political , the $ the Chinese sacrifi?s the the altar the the efficiency economic not having not proposing to a system of security social such a the the us we to the Canada .
the levels social and economic lower are particularly indign?s by the corruption , China .
the behaviour arbitrary the the individual officials , including the the back - country , is a result of dissension .
the use of the agitation policy , the Tibet and the the Xinjiang the motion established a minority turque and musulmane .
the government Chinese continue to give the priority to the stability , the " and daily structurelles the the system , and legal .
cooperative , since signing years , the tremendous progress the summer progress the the chapter the the rights of the human , China , and I believe that this trend the EI .
the Belgian the Canadian China , the Organization World of the trade revered a significant invigorating .
the Canada and the China , signed their harvests the the Belgian the Canadian China , the WTO the Toronto , Friday the , the 26 November , the the opportunity to the meeting Annual the quelque250 the Canadian the Canada - China Environmental Rehabilitation .
the WTO is a system of rules trade Democrats a process of settlement of the differences .
the China , clearly voted the the principle of the law , the right .
in the years , in the it approfondira his understanding and his the in practice of the principle .
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
i wish question . the " the Honourable Senator .
this is it has said , the fact that the Chinese the pertinent to a global the market , but with a step . centralis?e , I was fortunate .
the next time that my colleague will the China to a meeting of the group legislative Relations - Chinese , the chargera the Canadian to the disclaimer the Chinese , and expliquant that the Canada has tried to the formulation in the years 1980 , with the the initiatives such as the AEIE and the Program Energy national , and that this is the valve a disaster total ?
the senator Austin :
i will deal of the Canadian the senator Murray as a point .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Di Nino , the debate is adjourned . )
the Estimates , the Estimates , 1999 - 2000
notice of Motion to Authorize the the committee , the Finance Finance to study of Budgets and the Estimates , Adjourned the the debate
the Honourable Lowell Murray , pursuant to the moved 1 December 1998 , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian and money Finance be authorized to study , to the in the report , the Estimates expenditures in the Estimates , the Estimates for the fiscal fiscal the closing the 31 March 2000 ; and
that the committee , the report , the most final 31 March 2000 .
motion of amendment
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud :
honourable senators , I wish to a subamendment , this motion of the one meeting of the committee , the fishery , yesterday evening .
this amendment was the recipient the the unanimous by all the members of the committee :
that the motion be amended , by adding , after the words , the the Estimates , the Estimates for the fiscal fiscal the closing the 31 March 2000 . , the the the following :
the " the exception of the credits 1 , 5 and 10 , the Fisheries and Oceans ;
that the Committee on the Canadian and Oceans be authorized to study of spending expenditures of the Fisheries and Oceans domain in the Estimates , the Estimates for the fiscal the closing the 31 March 2000 ; and
that the Committee present its report , the most later , 31 March 2000 .
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
this issue . quite a very subject discussion to our committee , the Finance Finance the other day .
the country , the same if the credits the the government took in a sense overall are detained the the committee , the Finance Finance , no . being a place Committee on the the Senate . the make chamber , 33 the the Department of interest . the .
the members of the committee , the Finance Finance . objectent the the the Hon. the most overall the dilu? the one way or the one another .
i am 500,000 the clock the debate for the " my colleagues , there to the
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I have a question of the senator Murray regarding the state of the Estimates Main the the Estimates , the prorogation .
he I would be the Post budg?taies the the Department of the Fisheries and the flag by the committee , the fishery , the years of the last session .
i am asking if the senator Murray could explain what change apparent the Government .
i understand that the Chair . This , but why is clauses of Government of the last session and the present session , particularly in terms of the the was the committee , the fishery and the Hon. the Canadian the budget of the Estimates , the Department of the Fisheries ?
the committee wants to the evidence of the officials of the Department and the other on a question , the concern particularly .
the most , I do think that the the motion of the time that a part of the budget of the Estimates , a department that substantive by a committee , the
in the other place , the motion would the the people critically to the Economy , the Estimates , if I do I understand .
i stress the manner the us staffs the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A ) , for which the credits the summer claimants the the committee abiding the reason , the practical the the other place .
we have referred to supply , the " and poetry official and the Canadian Library of the Parliament , the committee abiding knowledgeable .
i appr?cierais a response to this issue .
the senator Murray :
honourable senators , I attempt to the answer .
i have been the Canadian . the years , year or two , there has been a number of the and I have gained the Chair . the years of this session .
the court to the Senate is that the veterinary the Estimates Main the the Estimates and the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates , the committee on the Canadian and money Finance .
since I years , because the Canadian and committees standing the failure to the Estimates budget for the departments the people . roles , we have decided to withdraw the Estimates budget of these departments opinions of the mandate of the committee on the Canadian and money Finance .
i have before my colleagues , this issue of the committee , the Order and they will have voted the this predatory .
they had two reasons , if I do I understand , and I can you say that the the honourable exp?riment?s as the honourable Cools , Bolduc and Doody were all the fact , this predatory .
they first reason , the motion that the committee on the Canadian and money Finance is the committee studying the study of $ budget and the appropriate . the chamber . forecasts globalement the country Committee .
it is , they argue that is not being a place Committee on the information the mandate of the Senate . the focus on the Estimates budget for a department in particular .
they second ground was that , if we granted for granted , the study by a place Committee on the the Estimates budget of the Department of the the case , the make the the background of the mandate of the committee on the Canadian and money Finance , then , not be not possible .
a time I would agreed , the with several amendments , the committee on the Canadian the Agriculture and the the forestry , by the , not be not engage a study of the Estimates budget of the Department of the Agriculture .
i think that the us not we not accept that a committee Standing the index the event that is that the study in full and approved budget of a department in particular , the only the the the Estimates budget . was renvoy?es globalement the the committee on the Canadian and money Finance .
it would be different if we we take the the government to the the motion of supporting the Estimates budget , the
as the Honourable Senator the record , the not . not the case .
we do the Act , approved budget . our points of the and our recommendations , but we do we not called the approval these estimates budget , voting .
the senator Robichaud :
honourable senators , I wish to the reasons of the amendment that I move the the name of the chairman of the committee and the the members of the committee , the fishery .
when the senator Murray has suggested the adjournment of the debate on the motion , I do I am not lot the the senator Hays the the fact .
but if I can , honourable senators , I wish you say that the committee . " no create the previous .
the Canadian the first session of the last Parliament , the committee , the fishery was given a person of Reference .
you , rappellerez that a motion was the item to this effect .
this is the same . the us we have the and the Minister has met the committee to three times .
he would the the public . the Senate that is the the hostile the the esteemed and questionne the Minister of the purpose of the allocation the highlights all these programs in the .
in the report presented the year , the Canadian seventh recommendation stipulait that the esteemed of the Estimates , the Department of the Fisheries and the the Oceans be r?f?r?s the the committee , the fishery .
this report . was passed the 16 June to the unanimous by this chamber .
this is therefore , the report and the this motion , the people were passed , the the basis of Committee to continue to the Canadian the budget of the Estimates , the Department of the Fisheries and the the Oceans .
i would share that he not . happened in the intent of the committee , the fishery the empi?ter the the mandate of a place Committee .
i believe firmly and do that our role be a the honourable to the fact , you have the necessity of Administration , all the departments , you not seen certainly not the time , to testify each of the ministers , their officials or counsel .
the committee has a little more the time to study of budget , he is a the one only Department .
we , we have the year , the
we are we are acquitt?s the this responsibility in acclaim the Minister .
in extending our report , the one recommendation accepted the the unanimous , we want to tell continue in the same vein .
the Honourable Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I wish to inform the the the existence , the
the early , the senator Murray has said that he did adjourn the debate and I , later .
we , we in full debate or , the senator Murray , do it to propose finally , debate ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Cools , we are now before the Canadian motion of amendment of the Honourable Senator Robichaud .
the senator Murray :
honourable senators , I am appr?tais the introduction of adjournment of the debate , but as the I have seen that the other senators wished continue , I am I sat , obviously , the the debate so that continue .
the senator Cools :
i think that the I should add , wish to the debate .
he I would be some questions . taken to us .
the the the lead the two categories , the great and the small .
the great the , as the the so well as the senator Murray , the motion of office and the powers of the committee Standing Senate . the Finance Finance concerning the examination of the budget of the Estimates , and that the right to the the committee , the Canadian receive the entirety the the budget for the examination .
i believe that is that the senator Robichaud hardware the biggest , the motion of the or the power to a committee , to a mandate of the Senate to study of supply the the interested in the budget of the Estimates .
we seek today , the the back .
the 4 March 1998 , by the Canadian the debate the Canadian offered , the motion ? " - that the 3 March , the senator Carstairs , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian and money Finance be authorized to study , to the in the report , the Estimates expenditures in the Estimates , the Estimates for the fiscal fiscal the closing the 31 March 2000 , the the exception of the credits 1 , 5 and 10 , Fisheries and Oceans , the the credit 10 , the Parliament and the the credit 25 , the Council Office .
the senator Robichaud wish to the r?activer the mandate .
if the " talk to the debate , the in the the 3 March , the broad , the the honourable Stewart and Comeau had it has the request .
we must address this issue .
the the image , the motion of a or the other .
a practice of the House of the House of subrepticement the the point of the adverse the the Senate .
the the I said that the type of the the , in some cases , the the credits be subject to the examination of various committee , I do wish to the that much a practice relevant based and that each time that we are before the the budget of the Estimates , the the study of these supply the Energy , the committee .
it , the , I want to answer to the senator Comeau .
is the question that we must attend .
the the immediate , however , he is a the knowledge , the committee , the senator Robichaud , the committee on the association to Fisheries and Oceans , the be given authorized to examine these supply .
we can get the other issue certified .
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs :
the elected to the committee . limpides .
the only Committee that the Rules allows the study of budget of the Estimates , a department is the committee on the Canadian and money Finance .
he not . the Canadian no other Committee in the Rules .
however , the Rules , the the committee can look the the issues in general .
the risk that , the the point of the government , a study general , the fishery should clearly englober the study of the budget of the Estimates .
all the the respect to the honourable must , he would be the be clarification this issue and the one ' s . the .
it would the us surprises the the problems .
we have certainly have the the problems , the week , the when we have tried to send a bill to the " both committees squeeze .
we have determined that is not the not the right to the make .
he will be the be clarify the Rules .
the fact , Your Honour , you pays decide the chamber , the " the committee , the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules , if you pr?f?rez not . the this decision you , the .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I am , the fact , with the the comments of the senator Carstairs .
i wish add that - section 86 related clear that is the " the committee on the the Finance Finance . to the accountability national and the Finance public .
the the committee on the the fishery , the Rules , "
... - ... the Order of the Senate , the bills of the , faxes , 710 , interpellations , papers and other matters relating to fisheries , the .
this is proprement the mandate of the committee .
frankly , the motion of the Canadian the committee , the Finance Finance . to globalement the accountability financial the the country .
he is the natural that the the committee hit a public , some departments , the the program .
as the the motion sense of the the budget of the Department of the so , programs in the ridiculous or not the purpose of the bill to the Department of the .
he is relevant to the committee , the fishery the present a motion to the receiving the Order of the Senate to make the one of the so that the side includes the same time , the evidence financial the the Department .
the mandate delivered by the Rules and the committee , the Finance Finance is completely different .
in the the concerns of education stipulates a public national , he is the ever a question financial , and the would a the not . ISH the the committee , the Canadian the study .
the Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Murray , you have already taken the honourable .
you , you the intent of making your motion and the clock the debate ?
the senator Murray :
your Honour , if you are prepared to the one ' s , that the honourable you take the question . little , let - we are .
the Hon. the Speaker :
i wish to the honourable senator may , to a comment .
the practice . was the chamber , 1998 , the Estimates , some committees .
i believe that we , we have the " the years of this session in the case of the Official Languages .
the budget of the Library of the Parliament , as the Aboriginal the one of the
when I was a the committee , he convened often , if I am recall , the the one of the independents , the mandate expanded to the " he refers the budget of the Estimates .
it . investigate any natural the review the the the independents in the Department , the other referred to the government . the Senate .
this is the person - be not a good intentions , but I know that the , the in the by the past .
the honourable can the the case appeal the the people want to the subject of the Department .
the practice at the only to the committee , to the issues , and the renvoy?es .
the way of properly is a question that one of the person with the
however , he is a precedent .
the senator Carstairs :
your Honour , we could be the be out that the Canadian the way next : we could ask the the senator Robichaud the simplest his motion of amendment ; we could then the Canadian motion to the chamber , budget of the Estimates , the committee , the Finance Finance ; then we could ask the leave of return to the motions , the the disability the the senator Robichaud the introduction that the budget of the Estimates , Fisheries and Oceans be examined by the committee , the fishery .
this , the us not affaiblirions not the mandate of the committee submit the the Finance , but we acquiesce to the committee , the fishery the power to study of budget of the Estimates , Fisheries and Oceans .
i do know that if the motion . the way of the highlights the the dilemma , but it would be in the one .
the senator Murray :
honourable senators , I do see no why we do we not act of the so .
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , I will look a few of Supply in the cogs .
the committee , the business foreign the so . the in this issue and I move the adjournment of the debate .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Corbin , the debate is adjourned . )
finance Finance
leave to the committee , according to Permit by the the average electronic
the Honourable Lowell Murray , pursuant to the opinion of the 1 December 1998 , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian and money Finance be authorized to allow the heading the the deliberations public by the media of information Ministerial , in disruption the least possible . the .
( the motion is agreed . )
leave to the committee , to the the staff
the Honourable Lowell Murray , pursuant to the opinion du1er December 1998 , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian and money Finance be authorized to withhold the services of counsel legal , the staff technical , the employee of office and the other people to the need , for help the committee to examine the bills of the , the substance of these games and the Estimates , he have been d?f?r?es .
( the motion is agreed . )
adjournment
leave having been granted , back to the Notice of Motion to the government :
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 58 ( 1 ) at ) the the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate . stand today , the the Senate to Monday next , the 6 December 1998 , the 16 at the
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate . adjourned . the Monday 6 December 1998 , the 16 at the motion
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 16
the Monday 6 December 1998
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the dumping
strengthening Tabled '
the Day national the comm?moration
the tenth anniversary of the tragedy of the school polytechnique
the Nova Scotia Nova
the four - ranging - second anniversary of the explosion the Halifax
statistics Canada
the data the census - Conformity which ethnic the Canadian , the Government of the the potential of marketing
business routine
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
tabling of the report of the committee on the part 1
tabling of the report of the committee on the parties 2 , 5
transport and Communications
notice of Motion During the committee to allow the premature the the deliberations , the media of information electronic
business Social , Science and Technology
notice of Motion During the committee to study of the Canadian the system of health
the rights of the human and the mother multiethniques
notice of inquiry
the data the the census
introduction of Petitions
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Defence down
the Timor oriental - Conformity the Canadian and rescue Sea King
the justice
the possibility of change the Code offence respect to the victim criminal - Conformity influence the the bill to the S - 6
the Transportation
the regulatory the one might monopoly in the area of the transportation Air the pressing - Government Policy government
the Supreme the the operations of the company air InterCanadien - Conformity service to the small communities
the regulatory the one might monopoly in the area of the transportation Air the the pressing - Government Policy government
the trade internationally
the failure of the discussions , the Organization World of the trade , - granting agricultural the the United the - Conformity the " and producers Canadian .
answer regarding the one issue orale
the health
the regulatory the the events of ?quarrissage - Government Policy the the government
the Senate . the Senate
use the the Rules , Points of the Chair
on business orders
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
second reading
referred to the committee
motion of hardships the the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , scinder the bill to the in both the adjournment of the debate
the Act , the border judicial
bill to the Second - Report of the committee , Adjourned the the debate
the Union monetary European
the report of the committee , the business foreign the the study - Consideration of the debate
the Senate
the Monday 6 December 1998
the Chair . Chair . 16 at the the Speaker , the the Chair .
prayers .
the Day national the comm?moration
the tenth anniversary of the tragedy of the school polytechnique
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , in my skill here today , the I was very sad to the perceived that he is the ten years ago , at age women ?tudiantes the the school polytechnique the the University of Montreal . was driving by a young tackle arm? the the years of a , the afternoon . average .
honourable colleagues , I am particularly sad to the perceived that the the seriousness and the dismay that this tragedy . occur , the vast publicity the in the summer the and the turn of the public , the subject , the violence , the women and the children goes the Consolidated the the country and the " the world .
the the least 51p. per - all the women Canadian of the Canadian 16 years . the the experience of the the least one incident of the the the Code offence " as the Canadian violence physical or youth , and the abuse allowing future , de10p. per - all the crimes the violence the the country .
we have progress? the the years of the ten years in the result of a number of advocates alderman , the the two sides of the Senate , and I think particularly to the the women as Senator the senator Sheila Finestone , former - Minister of the Condition retreat .
we have also the Canadian and progress of the one of the most of the great the chamber and the friends masculins the the are engaged in support the fight against the violence .
we have changed the legislation .
the machinery of awareness the work and enjoyed profit the this day national the comm?moration .
however , honourable senators , I believe that we do we not yet managed to reduce the way serious the intolerance , the poverty , the lack of the Canadian itself and the understanding human the cost of home of incubation the Canadian violence .
they have been selected for the the was the the women and , the more than disruptive the the , because the the the administration as the the f?ministes .
the the years of the years , I have seconded the the women commeSuzanne Vigneault - Fathers , the same the one of the young people , Anne - Marie ; Heidi Rathjen , ?tudiante and friend of a number of the girls driving ; and Wendy Cukier , the the leading to the implementation of up to the fray to the control of the weapons .
the many colleagues , the House from the all the parties have worked the the matter is the
this was a huge croisade public , the success , mesurera the last analysis when the attitudes changeront and that the statistics will r?gress? .
he is a the the progress when the cellule rock the the public . our society and the system , the support awkward a way of inculquer the the children of the values harm the Canadian embassy and the openness and the Act , further , war and the violence human and the the acquiescement muet the argument the difficulty the motion . behind the the doors closes not be not broad a country .
i wish to the Suzanne Vigneault - Fathers and the all the other members of the families who have a beneficiary or a sister the us comm?morons today , the memory that we zero , the Canadian , the the success in ?voquant the memory of the people .
we do we are numerous that the creative the resources , the postal and the welfare of men and women of our society , allow the deficit the haine , the frustration and the fear .
honourable senators , we are many too lents the us in dealing .
we must surely the Canadian correctly , the 14 young girls the sending the peace , Montreal been 1989 and the the thousands of the victims of our society . loans the effort Special the will the work . the beginning now .
the Honourable Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators , I rise today , the the opportunity to the Day national the comm?moration and the action against the violence the " and women .
this is today , the tenth anniversary of the killing of Montreal .
the 6 December 1998 , the one time essential in the history of the Canada .
this prosecutors carnage the the Thirty 20 minutes . doing as the worst killing him committed to a single day and the the summer the Order of the dark the country history .
this crime of haine the attention of the Act , the Canadian the violence released , the women in the the types , the the the numbers .
the killing the purchase the the women and the the men that the violence , the women . the ?nigme , real and person to the trade , a society , the enorgueillit the be civilis?e and compassionate .
the Canadian . the most of the Canadian heritage that the the crimes the haine the the kind . the fatalities that the our neighbours the the south .
unfortunately , the violence , the women continue to be a reality to the Canada .
the the ?pouses , the the Non , the the girls , the the Boston and the the feminist are breached , agress?es and assassin?es all the day .
this is also a fact that the authors of these crimes are generally of the men .
this are the the maris , the the spousal , the the south and the the best friends .
the status social or the situation economic any little .
the men and the women be the higher , this situation disgraceful .
these young women who had the their lives to live struck . as the that the
today , the us we not only we remember the provinces and the the other compensation to abuse , but also we get the new to the one term , the terrible ridding .
the 6 December 1998 deserves a reflection national the one outbreak the Italian , our society .
in the the country , the the renovations the place to honour to 14 young women who have seen as their lives ?court?e .
the repository that is the country responsibility to all the Canadian society . eliminate all the types of violence across the
honourable senators , the violence is a problem of society which we must all the deal , the the the cheques the Canadian violence racist , the Canadian violence rock , the Canadian violence the " and children , the Canadian violence , the women and the the members of minorities ethnic or the gais and lesbiennes .
a new phenomenon is announcing : the violence in the years of kids .
it is very widespread the the time at the it is completely unacceptable in a society civil .
this is a serious problem that all the Canadian be coming to eliminate .
the Honourable Shirley Maheu :
honourable senators , I wish to the honourable today , for the the reality and fiftieth tenth anniversary of the tragedy of the school polytechnique the Montreal .
we are souviendrons that the 6 December 1989,14 young women have lost the life , the hands of a man who is the the one of the killing of the women .
the act of haine the offence all the Canadian and the difference of the the many of the us meddling the violence , the women .
this is to this reason that each year since 1991 , we are submitting the this tragedy .
this is also to this reason that the 6 December , the guru as the Day national the comm?moration and the action against the violence released , the women .
this killing we , the other conscience that many Canadians were injured the violence and that a moment to the egregious .
the many steps have been taken to the counter this problem , but it remains yet many of the .
i wish to say , the parents and friends of Barbara Daigneault , Natalie Croteau , H?l?ne Colgan , Sonia Pelletier , Anne - Marie Lemay , Annie St. - Arnault , Genevi?ve Bergeron , Maud Haviernick , Mich?le Richard , Annie Turcotte , Maryse Leclair , Anne - Marie Fathers , Maryse Lagani?re and Barbara Marie Klueznick Widajewicz that the - the not be ever studiously and that we take the average to the the Canadian such events . the proposal , the
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs :
he not . not enough to us remember the the women .
we must also worked for us to the one such tragic not be ever to apply .
they had forgotten .
they have said that is such a thing . " the devastating the the Canada , and yet , the kind of the motion came to the Canada .
the life is the it better to the Canada . the not the was the , the ten years ?
the most , the life is the it better to the women , the were the target in the this attack ?
this is the cumulative with certainty , the motion that the number of women who are the the students , engineering the increased the way soaring , and the motion of the positive .
we know that the police the Montreal , reviewed the procedures of the and that this has brought the police in the other city of the country . seeing the people .
the 6 December , the the renovations the place over the country , the not only to Montreal , but also in my hometown , Winnipeg , and that the Canadian and conveyed the the Canada . the West , the the East and the the Atlantic .
the the face of action . organized to the clean the violence the " and women .
he is the one Campagne the the Ruban white , and I am very pleased to see that the many senators , the House arborent today , a boots white .
the that is extremely important .
honourable senators , as many of the honourable senator know , the year , the Canadian , Inc. keynote Honorary the the summer created to fund the centre to R?soudre the , the the Senate is the the Manitoba .
is a leadership of the results positive the northern offs the one informed as the - the .
the Honourable rald - A .
honourable senators , we comm?morons today , a traumatic tragic and deprivation .
in the , the 6 December 1989 , a man , singers L?pine , assassinait p.m. women .
he and the driving because the provinces , the the women .
the school polytechnique , the Montreal , the summer the gifted the the tragedy devastating .
yesterday , a monument commemorative the summer bit the Canadian correctly , the victims .
this tragedy d?fie the entendement .
we must continue our entire the the causes deep the this civil .
this is why we must be . the the motion that the attempt to the plight , in provisional by the Canadian the testing the Canadian and the the risk of the unrest serious the behaviour .
each level of the , each in his unequivocal , the wishes .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , today , visitors the tenth anniversary of the death of the 14 women assassin?es the the school polytechnique the Montreal , the 6 December 1989 .
i know that I am getting the door - speaking of all the honourable when I states that we do forget not the tragedy and that we compatissons with the families and the friends of these women , and with all the other people who have been marqu?es by this tragedy .
this unfortunate anniversary must be to the thought .
i wish you wish to the viewpoint by the Honourable Royce Frith le1er February 1990 , and indicated in the Hansard of the Order - that , when he has drawn the attention of the Senate on the violence the " and women in the corporation Canadian .
we continue to tireless to the Elimination of the violence made to the women .
i applaud the the efforts of several groups who have high the conscience overall and the people working for the Canadian and changes .
i applaud the the efforts of my friends parliamentarians who have worked , the Canadian eliminate the violence the " and women by the adoption of the Act , the control of the weapons the gun , the Elimination of the Defence of intoxication volunteered in the part of the crimes violent , the strengthening of the provisions of the Code offence provisions the the response to be higher and the well , and ways .
the senator Frith the reason , the authority to the not to ascertain not the one Israeli haphazard isolated , but rather , the symptoms the one problem social , cultural .
the church the the names des14 women in the unveiling of the memorial the the 6 December 1989 , Montreal yesterday being the importance of the question .
the correspondence grav?es in the game and the capstone are con?ues the so that the the need to a continuing to d?chiffrer the names .
this is the not accidentel .
the memorial the summer , emphasize to the the names of these women . contains in our souls and that their history . the ever confess .
the this stage of our history , I would suggest , honourable senators , the thought the the events of the 6 December 1989 and the make this is to you to the us we and , in the extent the us not the we not , the us we efforcions the have a society , articles the respect and the revised of the men and the women .
the Honourable Marisa Ferretti Barth :
honourable senators , the Canadian Montreal , you you understand how the memory of this event fulfilling my heart of daring .
the 6 December remain grav? in the memory of the Canadian the the motion in the Order that we comm?morons the , in the most of daring , the death tragic the 14 young women who have lost the life , the following the one Israeli the violence earning .
the the opportunity to the tenth anniversary of the tragedy of the school polytechnique the Montreal , I would suggest , only to condemn the violence , the the the it turns , what the Senate , which , I would urge the " reflect on the causes of a mere , Tisserant the the so secou? our society Canadian and Quebec .
i am sure that the 14 victims of the school polytechnique , the us put today , the memory , we inviteraient the lead the the actions , straightforward the people switch the years of the things .
the CHST the example , we must stop the us quereller the comments of the Act , the control of the weapons the gun , because of fusil Mini - 14 used to the the 10 years . is still not attend the Canadian law .
this weapon to fire not be a - be not d?clar?e ill?gale before the 1 January 2002 .
we do we not bring to the life of 14 victims of the school polytechnique .
the worst inequity , if we are r?fl?chissons , the motion of Merit by those who is common abandoned by the corporation .
in his the all the victims of actions criminals , seek the same time defined the the causes of the poverty , seek the inevitable the pain and the only , the are the most often the francophonie sources of the violence .
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , he is the ten years , today , the following 17 at the one young woman tremblait stand in the salon the the students , the school polytechnique the Montreal , equitable the it . " the one chaise bris?e the supplementary the mountains while the retentissaient the error of fusil the way in the corridor .
the Canadian , the L Rathjen the fact that is the remarkable .
lord and nerveuse the one myriad , it is the glue immediately , weeks . later , the Congress Canadian of the students in sociology to present a petition to the desperation a bill outlawing the the civil the FTQ the the weapons of assaut as those who had been used against his keen .
here is that it has said :
i have heard the the parents of the victims .
they want to the the human not always the the motion came to their daughters and they want desperately that some other . , ressorte the first . - something that the reorganized our society . sure .
after the entire the high , it has agreed . " in sociology the Courtois Canada , but it . the left six months , later to fight to full time , the Canadian the control of the weapons the gun .
with Wendy Cukier , it has seen the fray to the control of the weapons the gun and the rest , as the said , the motion of the history - ? , which has also involved the Senate .
the many changes have hysterical the the work of Mmes Rathjen and Cukier - the course , a bill to the control of the weapons the gun .
today , the then , we took this loss of lives tragic the Montreal , he is timely the matter tribute to the survivante the the fact , difference .
the Nova Scotia Nova
the four - ranging - second anniversary of the explosion the Halifax
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , the motion in the one day sad to the Canada .
i wish to echo the the comments which have been made to the subject of the tragedy the the motion brought to Montreal , he is the ten years .
i draw the the attention of the Senate on a place tragedy . sad the the motion brought to this situation ? , the
today , visitors the four - ranging - second anniversary of the explosion the Halifax .
the so that explosion not seem not directly be linked to the war , the motion because the " had need to win the war that the the contribution to the Port of Halifax the the events who have changed tragiquement the life of a very large number of our fellow , the Order - that the
the facts surrounding the explosion are well known .
the ship belge Imo and the ship French Mont Blanc , the death of the money , are unquestionably the collision in the Port .
the bridge the the Mont Blanc was responsible for f?ts thin the contenaient the the benzol , a the extremely inflammable the , when m?l?e the Canadian and bombs , the one upwards terrible .
the the overall the cloud the ship the the Mont Blanc and the crew the centrist the ship .
the the men and seamanship the the HMCS Niobe and the the NSM Highflyer the attempted , draining the marked the overall .
ninety and a minute , later , the following 9 at the the morning , the bushel of 2 750 tonnes of explosive the the Mont Blanc the way ahead , entra?nant the worst explosion caused by the man in the the history .
the d?flagration the summer voice to the the Island , Prince Edward Island , Prince , and the ships the were in overseas . revived the movement the the waves .
the old the North the Halifax and the Dartmouth the summer endorsing by a explosion the one magnitude quasi nuclear .
in the homes ras?es , the cuisini?res and the boilers the enflamm? the the the former the the adequacy d?labr?es , and the the overall were raged in the Canadian city .
the ice glaciale the the follow the summer , worse to the fault - free and the surviving h?b?t?s .
the one people urbanized the 50 per cent , the Canadian 1 bracket are missing and 9 per the summer fails .
some 13 500 vessels the summer ras?s and 6 per cent . demeur?es , free .
the the house , this tragedy incredible in our province .
a comm?moration very appropriate to the d?roul?e the the red the the sun , the morning , the Halifax .
the the time when we are unissons to remind the country remember the women who have lost the life of the so tragic the Montreal , the this same date , I ask the the honourable senators , the council , the loss tragic the the men , the the women and the the children in the explosion the Halifax .
statistics Canada
the data the census - Conformity which ethnic the Canadian , the Government of the the potential of marketing
the Honourable Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , the one of saying different and many more l?ger , I have learned recently , the Opposition and the Canadian the Canadian and the " reading of 47 of the morning . the facts .
this is my I found it is the one week I suspect a statement is that a question , and a statement of indignation .
the following the U.S. Financial , a debate is the years , Statistics Canada , the question of the the the need to the the size the the questionnaire the the census the signatures the reference to Canadian , the Canadian Jewish the the country ethnic .
this privilege we , the Donkin rather , the - heart to the first time , 1991 .
in 1996 , the good sense of the baggage the Statistics Canada , and the Canadian , Role among the examples of origin ethnic .
i suppose that many of the us are in the same . the I and not have not trying to origins ethnic by a single " .
as the most of the people of the family is established to the Canada has the Canadian a generation not have revendiquer a simple which ethnic , I have the Canadian assistance of the government . my colleagues senators ,
i merely the acceptance the accused the b?tarde the .
my mother the the side paternel are , by order alphab?tique , tracking , " , Scotians and irlandais , the one lady , vaguement demanded the was probably her .
the the other side , my mother is the Roman the awarding the British .
the repository not the the need to the Roman archaic British a good mixture of Pictes and the Celtes , 30,000 years of occupation Roman - that the main probably the chevelure black and the Grits oliv?tre the question mother - fault of the the waves successives the Angles , the Jutes , the Saxons , the Banks the maraude and the Normands conqu?rants .
two of my small - child have the the gift European the are concluded in America , the North the the beginning of the XVIIe century .
fifteen generations of this family , moreover and the aspirations the country mainland .
the then we are ?
the the liver hach? ?
how we , we are laid we , the ?
i believe that we are the proud Canadians , p abiding characteristically Canadian .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the senator Milne :
i states that I am a belief thing and Statistics Canada should be shame the same officer to select the benefits of the faculty the the background of the freedom of choice the basis to the Canadian of the poll as they the wish .
what shame !
business routine
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
tabling of the report of the committee on the part 1
the Honourable Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I have the honour to table the second report of the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology Committee on the part 1 , the bill to the C - 6 , the motion to facilitate and the use of Trade Ministerial the virtue of information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of the coverage to bring or put the the information and the the sophisticated and the Act , the Act , and the the Canada , the Act , the Statutory Instruments and the Act , the review of the legislation .
tabling of the report of the committee on the parties 2 , 5
the Honourable Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I have the honour to table the third report of the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology Committee on the parties 2 , 5 , the bill to the C - 6 , the motion to facilitate and the use of Trade Ministerial the virtue of information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of the coverage to bring or put the the information and the the sophisticated and the Act , the Act , and the the Canada , the Act , the Statutory Instruments and the Act , the review of the legislation .
transport and Communications
notice of Motion During the committee to allow the premature the the deliberations , the media of information electronic
the Honourable Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , I give notice that Tuesday , the 7 December 1998 , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian and Communications and the the communication the power to allow the premature the the deliberations public by the media of information electronic , the manner in bother the least possible . the .
notice of Motion During the comit?? clerical the the services
the Honourable Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , I give notice that Tuesday , the 7 December 1998 , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian and Communications and the the communication the technical , clerical and services of counsel , clerical , clerical the board or other elements necessary to examine the bills of the , the substance of the Canadian law and the Estimates budget , he have been providing .
business Social , Science and Technology
notice of Motion During the committee to study of the Canadian the system of health
the Honourable Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the traditional 7 December , I move :
that the Committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , though the review the in the report of the Canadian the system of health , the Canada .
the particular , the the committee be authorized to examine :
the motion - governing basic the countries . based on the public . health , the Canada ;
b ) The historic the the system of health , the Canada ;
c ) ( frequently the health public in the other countries ;
d ) The system of health , the Canada - Why and constraint ;
e ) The role of the government , in the system of health , the Canada ;
that the Committee present its report final the the most final p.m. December 2001 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , by terrorism the the rules usuelles , the table . the Clerk of the Clerk of the Senate , the Senate . " no , the time , that the and that the report be deposited have been tabled the the Senate .
the rights of the human and the mother multiethniques
notice of inquiry
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 9 December , I give the attention of the Senate on the question of the rights of the human and the the mother multiethniques .
the data the the census
introduction of Petitions
the Honourable Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the honour to present a petition to 139 signatures the people were gathered the the years of the summer the by the the members of the Yarmouth geriatrics Historical Society Museum and Archives .
it is said :
we , soussign?s , cultures the sincerity our concern to the subject of the decision taken by Statistics Canada . the not making the data the the census the 1911 and the the marked ult?rieurs the the Archives Finance to the provinces are put the Canadian section of the public , the end of 92 years , as it and expected by the article 6 , the Rules and the protection of the information personal .
we wish to access to all the data the the marked and the intention of using these jaded resources for the our roots , we travel the our ancestors and write that the us know , they are the aerials the family francophone the our children and the our grandchildren - child .
we approach that this is important to our priorities Social and that the Heritage Canada . in coming enriched .
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Defence down
the Timor oriental - Conformity the Canadian and rescue Sea King
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
the one of them . have the well involontairement , I trust - to a amerrissage forced and a place . did the other ennuis .
the Minister can the the us that if the two aircraft pilots the new , particularly the the the summer forced to amerrir ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I wish to the first to pay the Canadian expertise of the members of the crew of the helicopter .
they have had to the " a problem Sea , the Canadian RRSP the amerrissage the the broad the the coasts of the Timor oriental .
fortunately , they have succeeded the RRSP the entire security .
after a straight the the point dissent the one financing of minutes , they have been d?coller and the matter to a port .
the helicopter Sea King , as the Honourable Senator the record , as the the summer put the way to the , if necessary , the question . easily the the water that the land .
he is deposited to his stability in the the kind of RRSP .
i do workforce not until the " that this amerrissage the summer wanted .
he is a well course , a response to a problem dissent , but the situation . was ma?tris?e the Canadian perfect by the crew .
the administration was designed to do with the the kind of Cit , and the first , the downswing respect to the fact that the the circumstances .
the senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , I do I do appeal the the said , Minister , because it would be embarrassant .
the Sea King not . not intended to operate on the water .
he fleet , but the " the most .
i do Chronicle not necessarily the question on the state of operating .
these restrictions . voleraient not to the not , not in the Canadian away and the people . was not pilot?s by the the people . knowledgeable and very conscientious .
the - be no I - I do the rather clear in August my question .
the Minister can the the " that if the Sea King - that is the state of archaic .
if the motion of the , will be able to his ardent ?
the second Sea King the the known of the problems encountered or the availability during his trip to the Timor oriental ?
in particular , the administration , the pre a amerrissage forced will be steal the new ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the the information that I have the when the helicopter . amerri , the the steamship the act was forwarded to the HMCS Protecteur .
the crew of the administration , in the red?marr? the extreme , about 10 minutes , the helicopter . d?coll? and the motion then asked to the Pearson the Dili .
a team of personnel the then the late to the Pearson to the view of information that I have the basis , the case afforded , the dance the the damage or the need to make the Canadian and upkeep .
as the motion of the in the kind of Cit the flight , a commission of the safety of the Polish the summer business .
the the time , I do I do the extent of the " the senator , successful the this inquiry or the the " if it is still in the .
the justice
the possibility of change the Code offence respect to the victim criminal - Conformity influence the the bill to the S - 6
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I believe that the one friend of the Leader of the government , the knowledge her the Minister of the Justice , the bravery publicly the intent of the " is that the the changes that modifications the the Code offence respect to the victim criminal .
the the side - the Canadian the Senate , we are counts the knowledge what are the political and the intent of the government to this regard .
the specific , the Leader of the the course , the Minister of the Justice incorporera in the bill to the spark the provisions of the bill to the S - 6 , a bill to the biggest the interest . , including , the senator Oliver ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I do I do the details specific to the moment .
i am sure that her the Minister of the Justice is the the fact , the bill to the Canadian the senator Oliver .
as the Canadian psyche exactly the the bill to the the it will the the Parliament , I prefer expect to the the time , that the
i happen the - be providing , the Canadian details .
the Transportation
the regulatory the one might monopoly in the area of the transportation Air the pressing - Government Policy government
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , my question to the Leader of the government to the Senate to the political government to the respect to the monopoly the threat of the businesses in the area Canadian of the transportation Air the pressing .
the Minister of the Transport , that the the hope and the the one or a further business CWB the time appropriate to join the the area and create the Canadian competition .
the - time , he hesitant the forbearance the excessively the area and suggests to the the government will always the power to act in the Canadian Award predatory .
this is my wish to the " the TAGS , the motion of the motion of political government .
this is the will not the last word .
i do none not more than anyone the regulatory , but we reach in a situation where he is a little a monopoly in the area for a period ind?finie .
in determining , he will hurts regulate the new the area .
the business . " no be allowed to withdraw the the services , the Hon. grateful , or the criteria the price as it . committed .
the said monopoly that new regulatory .
the Leader of the government to the Senate may , he we do the assurance that the question of the the the need rer?glementer the new monopoly . the not been 1930 and that the government will this responsibility to the serious and that he not do not the Canadian complaisance the permission a political low as the matrimonial Collenette , moved to the years of the interview that he has given recently , the media ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
i believe , honourable senators , the the commitment to the government level of the issues raised by the senator has been expressed clear , the Minister and failure by me in this chamber .
no . the more . decided .
as the senator , as the in some day , the shareholders of the one of the motor air 120 the the vote on the offer the their the summer Before .
i hesitant . " I have to the time , because it would be considered as a statement influant the this decision .
however , I can say that the Minister has set . clear the five objectives of the political the the government , the knowledge of protection of the consumers , the price roof , the peace - and services to the small communities , the protection of the rights and the the concerns of the employee , the peace - the Competition and , obviously , the control Canadian army .
the government and the Minister of the Transport and determined to apply those principles .
the the time , he remains the the point of this in the area private , but these principles . changeront not .
they remain the key to vo?te the Canadian political government in the area .
the senator Murray :
i thank the Leader of the government to his answer and the point of the conditions contained by the honourable , Mr. Collenette .
i believe that the people of December Canada . the knowledge of a draft of the - the one drain and the - be the is the the Canadian a report informal - the one of the Canadian House of the House of bilingual some recommendations as the the system that the government should stop the place .
the chairman of December Canada , the the government and the the Parliament , the the motion be the acceptance .
i am struck by the U of the attitude intransigeante the response Canada , the us that is that it accept and the the it is accept not , and the attitude rather docile and passive the the Minister of the Transport .
what the the in the , we see the time and the .
the senator Boudreau :
when the " the requested to the Minister what measures the government benefits to ensure the respect to the objectives of the political and the smaller respect to politics , he has answered wording that the parliamentary , the Transportation of the Competition , the Board of the Transportation of the Canada , the Minister of the Transport and that the Governor in the joueraient a role .
the this stage - the , the committee , the Senate and the Canadian the House of the House of all of consideration of the .
i am sure that they have the one good work and that the Minister incorporated serious the Canadian their findings .
he not the no doubt that the chairman of December Canada criteria express the opinions and I am sure that the Minister of Foreign the so .
however , the decisions Strategy and the structure final will the Canadian and principles that I have experienced the the intent of the honourable senators ,
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate is the the in the Canadian , the the motion that the the government based back to a industry air r?glement?e the the Canada ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , for the moment , the process following his years .
the area private must take the the decisions . serious , and I think that we should expect that these decisions are taken .
they the will the little , and we do we not speak or trying to influer the somewhat the the the Senate on the decisions that cognizant of the particular diligence their rights , as the shareholders .
i am very prudent to the subject .
however , for the moment , the government has noted the principles worry the countries . reserve the political , will RFP .
the my opinion , the motion to the Minister of the Transport that he decide , the one date designated , the basis exactly how these principles will the in the .
the Supreme the the operations of the company air InterCanadien - Conformity service to the small communities
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the Minister goes the subsequent the five principles set the Hon. friend , the Minister of the Transport , the one of them , the service to the small communities .
the Supreme the the operations of InterCanadien the in the the impact on the small communities . the region . the the Honourable Senator is Erin .
the Minister can the the " to the Senate how the mistreatment of the Canada Atlantic stood desservis only by InterCanadien not have more desservis now ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I thank the senator , his question .
i have consulted quickly my notes , but if I am recall , the the motion . the three clearance .
the senator Kinsella :
the Leader of the the the appointment ?
the senator Boudreau :
he is the the two to the New - New , the the Honourable Senator does will very well , and a " Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
the senator Kinsella :
our colleague , the Honourable Senator Cochrane , the importance of the Order that the Pearson the Stephenville and two clearance the the North - is the the New - New were the the number .
the people of Stephenville and the the North - is the the New - New not the it is in the spirit of the government ?
the senator Boudreau :
i believe that the " the time at all the communities . the Canada Atlantic , the the exception of these three communities , are tour by a place transporteur .
these three communities , the Stephenville , the Newfoundland - Newfoundland , and Charlo and Chatham , the the New - New , are tour by Air Power the basis of Bathurst .
as the Stephenville , the people will your the matter to the centre of Regina Cold , located the $ 113 kilometres of their historic .
the that , the not . not the ideal , but we are the will lengths .
i must focus that the service of transportation Air the Stephenville possession of the problems , the the events recent .
the senator Forrestall :
that the Canadian Sydney ?
the regulatory the one might monopoly in the area of the transportation Air the the pressing - Government Policy government
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I have a last the supplementary that I wish question in the purpose of the the point and the light on this issue .
the Minister can the the guarantee to the Senate that the government . tol?rera not a monopoly not r?glement? in the area of the transportation Air the the pressing ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
i can say , the honourable senators , the government plan to conflict that the clear marginalized the Minister of the Transport in his political .
the trade internationally
the failure of the discussions , the Organization World of the trade , - granting agricultural the the United the - Conformity the " and producers Canadian .
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , the the the the negotiations the the WTO the defeat the end of weekly and that , the entire clearly , the question of the Agriculture concern greatly some senators , I remind the the Minister of the Agriculture , the Leader of the government to the Senate , the other ministers and the Prime Minister of all that the , for help the farmers Canadian , he was absolutely eliminate the grants excessive that compensate the Americans and especially the Europeans the people farmers .
he seems now that this objective . will not attained before long .
what is the Government of incarceration the the government to help the farmers and how will be equipped the grants excessive the profiles in the disadvantages European and American ?
he appear that he not be now . the strategy for the in the " and producers of the West .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , he is clear to the the world that the results obtained the Miami the the the concerns of the Canadian and grants . the not challenging and that the matter . the not progress? as we , we hoped .
however , he would show the agreements , the discussions have made it .
the discussions , the Canadian eliminate or the counter the grants awarded the the United - United and the Union European the work under the auspices of the WTO .
we hope that the matter will advance and , in the , he remains a priority primordiale to the Minister and the the government .
the senator Andreychuck :
honourable senators , I con?ois that the negotiations that a priority .
they the are over 1947 .
this is my is difficult to accept , the motion that the the idea to the the provinces produced a result of the would allow the look the light of the end of the tunnel , and the , for the first time depuis5 or 10 years .
this is the clear that the case .
the so , negotiated the work , a solution satisfaction not come . the one end of time .
that will the government to help the farmers . the Saskatchewan , the light of the fact that the negotiations the the WTO the shortfall was brought to the late ?
the government r?examinera the the program of the and the support the the farmers . the West today , the
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I said that these discussions , pursue the the auspices of the WTO .
the Minister and our government continue to the region , priority that they deserve .
i preface , the the senator , the " the years of discussions that we have conversations , the Minister . the said that the negotiations on the renewal of the program spouse federal - provincial and Safety of the income . pursue and , namely , the , the one way , help the farmers Canadian .
the senator Andreychuk :
honourable senators , is the the the " round some questions . worded the the the the policy , the transportation ?
is the the the " chair of the Canadian and expense of transportation to the farmers . the west of the Canada ?
the senator Boudreau :
the the stadium - the , I do I do make the substance of the discussions , the one of governments federal and provincial .
i could be the be to the information and , if possible , the share with the senator .
the senator Andreychuk :
i wish to the information . wrote , because I believe that the the , the in the the discussions with the companies rail to limit the profits , if I can use the term , or the surplus that they built the the transportation of the Wheat and the the other products agricultural .
i wish to answer written the entire the political the the Transportation the the Canada .
the senator Boudreau :
i am confident the specific the answer written the most detailed possible .
answer regarding the one issue orale
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I have the answer regarding the one issue . the Honourable Senator Spivak , raised the 17 November 99 the the Senate to the subject of the regulatory the the events of ?quarrissage .
the health
the regulatory the the events of ?quarrissage - Government Policy the the government
( response to the question raised by the Honourable Mira Spivak the 17 November 99 )
the government , has the powers required to regulate the membership of the events ?quarris and the industry . the ?quarrissage .
in the , all the dumping grasses and all the tourteaux the intestine regarding the be used in the the foods the the animal are unregulated the the system of the Act respecting the the foods the the cattle .
the events ?quarris be a healthier the the standards determined in the Rules and the foods the the cattle and not have forecast of contaminants the armed organisms the the animal or menaceraient the emphasis of the foods .
the institutions of ?quarrissage are the subject of a inspection Annual the basis of whether the people held in registres expected , apply to the Canadian Air INS to avoid the blood fork and ?tiquettent properly their products .
the the parties of Animals fascinating abattus are over the many years transform?es to be ajout?es the Canadian and Drug the the cattle as sources of IGF - tech quality .
in April 1996 , the Organization World of the health . recommended that all the country " that the Canadian meat and the Canadian farine the physical the ruminants that data to eat the Canadian and ruminants .
section includes the feed , the moutons and the ch?vres , by the .
these measures to bring in the part of the efforts to the clean all the factors of risk namely associated the Canadian transmission of the enc?phalopathie spongiforme the the feed ( ESB ) , the disease of the cow Mad the .
in 1996 , the Canada has led the CTAISB consultation the the export affected the people , the " the tax . the removal respecting the the foods the the cattle , August 1997 .
since the decision of the Canadian the removal , the farmers . the most use of the dumping interdites the as ingr?dients in the foods the the ruminants .
however , the farmers are still using these matters in the foods the the animal not ruminants as the volaille and the porc .
if the Canada has decided to exempt the porc and the volaille the the removal of the Canadian and protein mammaliennes the eat the Canadian and ruminants , the motion that no enc?phalopathie spongiforme transmissible ( THEREFORE ) the country natural not the summer demanding the the porc or the volaille .
in addition , the use continue to the events in the foods the the hog and the Canadian volaille pools the need to the incin?rer or the the enfouir .
the government , regulatory get the the events of ?quarrissage , the ACIA the career a review of the political , this regard .
the Senate . the Senate
use the the Rules , Points of the Chair
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , before the us not emotions the the Order of the Order , I am prepared to me deal of the question , the summer raised by the senator Corbin , the subject of the Employment , by the Honourable Senator Cools , the the term " to minion the .
i thank the Honourable Senator Corbin , the point of the " the Senate , because of the Canadian and observations the are made to the Senate or the the other place to the subject of a the the other and the " the subject of the Governor General is important .
the honourable senators , the teachers the use of sexually the the be blessant to the the people who started the the Post prestigious .
however , I have read carefully the comments of the senator Corbin on the question .
he has quoted the 9e edition of the Concise Oxford Dictionary to make the Resolution the the term .
he is a the first , a subject loved and loved , the one plucked , the one amoureux or the one amoureuse , the one ma?tresse or the one amant , particularly when they are particularly esteemed or the people are pr?f?r?s , a idol favorite , or the reporter the one requiring .
however , the said , the or staunch servile the .
the most of the definitions are flatteuses .
i must then make as the the the term , minion the not . not offensive in his partisans general .
he is that , I , I , to the Canadian the most of judgment to avoid all the words offensants the the place . , and the Canadian institutions important to the Canada .
on business orders
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
second reading
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Kirby , seconded by the Honourable Senator Lewis , seconded the Canadian second reading of the bill to the C - 6 , the motion to facilitate and the use of Trade Ministerial the virtue of information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of the coverage to bring or put the the information and the the sophisticated and the Act , the Act , and the the Canada , the Act , the Statutory Instruments and the Act , the review of the legislation .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I informed the Senate that , if the Honourable Senator Kirby made the honourable now , the intervention will the effect of closing the debate . second reading .
the Honourable Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , my comments today , will very brief to the simple the the I have brought the early today , both reports the the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , report with the bill to the C - 6 .
as the honourable senators , in recall , he is the two weeks , this chamber , although the suspension the debate . second reading during the the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology Korean the the study of the subject of the bill to the C - 6 , the the us have called forth the study pre the .
the results of the hearings and the the deliberations of the committee on this issue . g in the two reports the people were tabled in this chamber . there about a time .
i will simply participant that the one of these reports parallel the the amendments to the bill to the C - 6 , returning the people were passed to the unanimous by the committee , earlier today , the
these amendments receive the support of all the members of the committee .
the result , I hope that , if the honourable sells it to the debate . second reading of the bill to the day , and ambulances the bill to the " the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , the - the entire the Whole tomorrow morning for the the report .
i do , the with the leave of the S?ant , begin the debate on the amendments .
honourable senators , the the place . to the two reports that I have documents today , the the I move the review the subject as the the Senate will indeed before the the report tomorrow , I wish to the the few comments on the practice of the Senate to come , " the debate . second reading .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable - the " and senators , the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed and the bill to the motion read a second time . )
referred to the committee
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . third time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Kirby , the bill to the motion referred to the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology . )
motion of hardships the the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , scinder the bill to the in both the adjournment of the debate
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I venture will be you agree that , the the primacy and the literature the people authority , the time indicated to give a hardships the the committee , the motion immediately after the Committee of the bill to the in committee .
the this regard , I wish attention of the Canadian the Chair of the motion No. 19 placed , the my name for the 24 November and the proposed the giving a hardships the the committee on the .
i think that he would appropriate to us in self now and , the case afforded , I wish to the honourable .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , he do the the Senate . in conclusion .
the sixth edition of the precincts is very precise the the subject , including the relative 684 , the following the text :
the education is being proposed the act after the Committee of the bill to the in committee , the certified the form of Motion embarked .
this could the be done . the following , if the Senate is the agreement , or certified .
honourable - the " and senators , namely now , would placed on the name of the senator Murray ?
the Honourable Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I am , the fact , with the the us seemed the question that the senator Murray wish raised .
it is recorded in the right over the the reports documents today , and , in the passing the the sincerity now , we keep the the committee , to a job . exhaustive tomorrow .
i hope that he will the following the Canadian request of the senator .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable - the " and senators , we tarred the Canadian the ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Murray :
honourable senators , pursuant to the opinion of the 24 November 99 , I move :
that he be given to the Committee on the biggest will referred to the Canadian law C - 6 , education next :
that he has the power to scinder the bill to the C - 6 , the motion to facilitate and the use of Trade Ministerial the virtue of information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of the coverage to bring or put the the information and the the sophisticated and the Act , the Act , and the the Canada , the Act , the Statutory Instruments and the Act , the review of the legislation , in both the Canadian law , the Prime the declining the Canadian of 1 and the the Journals 1 , the the skin and a clause of entry , into the the second , set of the rest of the bill to the and the the annexes 2 and 3 with the the skin ; that the deliberations on the second bill to the ability to Oral to the the study of the Prime ; that the one or the other . the bills of the person to the subject of a report , the Senate Transport , the summer into the and that , regardless of the automotive accustomed , the Senate , this education . any time , the summer before the the bill to the , the following the the committee will began the study .
honourable senators , he is the few days , while the us discutions the this chamber . the evolution of the bill to the C - 6 , the Senate , I have made some commitments to the name of the loyal opposition of Her Majesty .
i the I have with the approval of the leadership of the side - the .
the commitments were probably the , the the , the one clause of the committee for helping the bill to the order to take the consideration of concern concerns , including the the area of the care of health , we , the country side , then , the the us could , in the extent of the reasonable , for the feasibility in the most brief attempt a bill to the amended to the the so that consideration by the House of the people . ajournent the House of the House of the medical the Christmas .
i rise now to examine this commitment .
however , this commitment is a problem for the motion .
if I soumettais this motion to a debate and the one vote requires , it would have to the Canadian delay the adoption of a bill to the amended in this chamber and the harm to the commitment that I have made . earlier .
i wish to tell the the I do I do the intent of properly and the
i will now to some comments on the question and let the the , when I will get , a friend criteria the - be just adjourn the debate .
this is a question is that I have raised .
this bill to the combine the fact , the Canadian law separate .
i had a part , and I have I can the be a if I can the widespread , the the quotations the the Minister of the Justice and the officials of the Department of the Industry the eighth that he is the " the beginning of the Canadian law , the summer combined . a single .
i had the intent of the signatures these quotations the the comte the .
unfortunately , honourable senators , you someday I believe the honourable , because the midst all the foods that I have the labour , I do is not the statements made by Ms McLellan and the the officials of the Department of the Industry the the committee , the House of the House of the Hon. the Canadian the bill to the C - 54 .
Ms McLellan the union . clear that , the front directors of the Saltatha the the cabinet , Mr. Manley and it had it wanted to first to both the Canadian law different , but that the reason , the calendar Parliamentary , they had decided to the combiner the one only .
a lady the the name of St?phanie Perrin , the the Department of the Industry , the the messages the the committee , the House of the House , and that the one of the Senate . there has a the time , the the Fifth , the Shadows the one of the
when the officials of the Department of the Industry the Stentor before the committee on the I have I asked the question , but I do I do from the answer clear .
they wished , that protect their arri?res .
they have mentioned that the bill to the exception of Grain the the part legislative government dealing the trade Ministerial .
they have evaded the fact that the provisions of the bill to the Act , and private will - the significance of the trade Ministerial .
they will apply to the information personal collected in the part of the trade , the the Senate by way Ministerial or other .
the fact is that the part 1 is a bill to the in itself .
honourable senators , I have had few scientists to the subject of my motion when a number Ian Lawson has appeared before the committee .
this is a lawyer , Vancouver and a specialist recognized the the issues relating to information personal .
Mr. . Lawson has thrown the point that , constitutionnellement , the part 1 , the bill to the border the Canadian of 2 . " no you d?rangerai not with this or , the entire the I do think that the have here .
i would ask a time , the Canadian I believe the honourable .
as you the you , Mr. Tass? , the motion of former the - Minister of the Justice , is also a constitutionnaliste .
he not . not waited the " that the point Mr. Lawson has been r?fut? Mr. Tass? .
he we , explained the way detailed and scholarly , as the Hon. usual , why the whole of the bill to the and all its provisions future . year legitimate and appropriate to the power to the government , in the Canadian trade .
i return to the the I mentioned in the Canadian second reading .
he is a the fact , both the Canadian law and the Canadian a single .
the not be not to enter the bill to the in the category of the bills of the planning because the the news certainly , the one spouse .
we have the one debate in paragraph reading , a study in committee , a debate in Social reading and we could all go each child we .
i recognize that is the one d?monstration by the absurd , but I hope that it your the Canadian understand the risk that problem . such practice .
otherwise , the " will the the supreme the the rights of the Parliament , he soumettant a bill to the nicotine a principle clear set of such a that the parliamentary so that the the provisions the Canadian light of the principle .
the one point of the practice , the the reading of the second reading , I have expressed the fear that , in the present debate , we accordions . the attention to the part 1 , the Canadian protection of the life private , the us jugeons the cause , and not enough to the parties the the trade Ministerial , the Canadian ability to the citizens of information with the agencies of the government , by the the average electronic and the the effects of the Act , the evidence to the Canada , the use of the communication electronic by the system judicial .
this are there , the issues extremely serious , but the committee , the House of the House . the the most not candidates , not more than our own Committee .
honourable senators , he need to read the third report of the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , tabled the early today , the to see that the the motion of the
the report that then : " - Committee . the not received enough to Apply the the parties 2 , 5 , the bill to the to do the the comments to the Canadian and the the provinces allows the .
the committee , however , he appear simpler a support enough quite the the respect to the parties of the bill to the .
well , the honourable senators , if the in some months or some years , he appert that the provisions of the parties 2? 5 ringing the the problems that one . the rep?r?s or agencies , then the members of the government and the the Parliament will the air of visiting fools when the people thorough , in r?trospective , the path of the bill to the " the cabinet and during the the process legislative .
honourable senators , the so I would let my motion to the reasons that I have spelled , I wish to the the my colleagues understand the ones the the honourable the the side - the existing the question to the serious .
we believe that he is to the in our power to appeal the government , he does a bill to the the motion in the two - the bill , as the motion of the chamber , just to accommoder those who troops the Senate to the other place .
this are the House of the Opposition the the other place , would have object with existing if it was escaped the the attention of their colleagues .
but it , the motion of the history , located , a time , the Canadian the Senate as the Canadian second , the the decisions the the power executive .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Kirby , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act , the border judicial
bill to the Second - Report of the committee , Adjourned the the debate
the Senate proceeded to the study of the second report of the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional ( Bill , the C - 7 , the Act , the Act , lots judicial and a place . in determining , with amendments to vote on the report , the Senate . 30 November 99 .
the Honourable Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , in the the chairman of the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional , I have the honour to address the report on the bill to the C - 7 , the Act , the Act , lots judicial and a place . in determining .
the bill to the proposed a number of the changes to the Orders of offenders meeting in the Act , the border judicial .
he says , a presence in the rule general , but the disclosure of the issues of the people who have had a rehabilitative the the respect to a violation meeting of the regulations to the WTO their communication in the part of the examination of the nominating the one would the doctor these people in the Canadian trust or the authority by the " the the children or the Canadian and the vulnerable .
the bill to the motion referred to the the proposals the amendment .
the Canadian explain the proposals the amendment , however , I wish to you give a number historic the the facts .
in June the , the Solicitor General has appeared before the committee for the Canadian promotion of the bill to the then called C - 69 .
the " the long - that the and the ones who have followed , he is much clear to your committee that the bill to the purpose the remarks captions many shortcomings .
the the name of the committee , I have written to the Solicitor General for the make the Canadian our concerns , the knowledge , including , the us were drastically the look that he not there was no reference deliberately the the fact that the bill to the legal and records of the Cold sexual r?habilit?s .
it is inqui?tait , in addition , the some evidence internal the the bill to the members frigate in the Order citation the bill to the .
during our deliberations , we have also discussed acrimonieusement the the evidence of political , the - barristers the bill to the and we are we asked if we apporterions a change basic the the system of offenders , above the one was MP by several of our predecessors the Canadian House .
i have also raised this issue in the letter that I have expressed to the Solicitor General .
i do hesitant have the credit the credit to a thing to the human the reason , up and I must you wish to honourable senators , the the work of the committee has been missed facility by the collaboration of the Solicitor General .
the only the the answer to the country letter , but he - the and his officials have the fact , all our concerns and the doors of the suggestions the amendments on the the - sought .
as we do we not the time , to the changes to the opportunity to the session 81 , the the officials of the board of the Solicitor General . appeared before our committee , weekly last to the matter of new the the bill to the and the present the the committee , the proposals the amendments to the bill to the the filling the the concerns .
the the name of the committee , I thank the Solicitor General and his officials of the attention that they have leave to our concerns and the the assistance to the people brought in proposing the the improvements to the bill to the .
the report on the bill to the prairies the major amendments following .
first , the definitions of the words , children , and the people vulnerable to switch the the Order of the body of the text of the bill to the .
the committee has noted that the term , marital the not . the acceptable in the corporation the day , the
he not to the in the practice of using the term in a measure legislation .
second , the word " dependency the the summer said , the article 6 , the bill to the order that he be well clear that only the heat allowing would conducted in order to the system proposed .
third , the Journals of the heat allowing the summer withdrawn the the Order and ins?r?e in the bill to the proprement that the
honourable senators , the not . certainly not the first , or the last time , the us apportons the the improvements to a measure legislation gives the the other place .
the changes that your committee has amendments to the bill to the C - 7 , and the road to a presence clear , with the sort the Canadian Act , the border judicial .
these changes have maintained the balance between the objectives of the system of offenders and the need to protect the children and the other groups vulnerable in the corporation .
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I support certainly the comments of the senator Milne .
i commend the members of the committee , the excellent work that they have the in their study of the bill to the .
i support the amendments .
i wish however , wish both matters of concern .
the changes that the " I , to the Canadian Act , the border judicial the the the concerns of offenders future of the intrusion important to a point where the public stamping clear that the rehabilitative , a time leave , interdisait the use designated the the former lots judicial the one person , it .
i am remind the , when I was kidnapped lawyer , he has learned a number of the the the public parvienne the understanding , what practical is the rehabilitative .
i must however , some concern regarding the integrity of the process of offenders .
the " the long - the hearing , the Minister and the officials , are Laurier . doing that this bill extraterritorial a intrusion in the system of offenders and that it walked the - be the fall or the lengths . the process of offenders .
they have a barrier that the service of police the would the theme of the system utiliserait the the statutory the control effective .
the the I ever the most of respect to the services of police to the Canada , he considers the the government . the one of shouts and effective the the process of control of the police .
recently , by the " the Act campaign , the us . guaranteed that the protection of the information personal would conjunction .
yet , by inadvertent , all the issues of the Information the the Manitoba have been ?gar?s .
he would unacceptable that the system of offenders not operating not the integrity .
he would inconceivable the not . to a review thorough and the not . maintain the system of indicators .
the not be used the - the the to whether the casiers court of the degree in the the heat the nature sexual .
this , I concern , the motion that the disadvantages the d?t?riorent with the time .
when they will the short of resources , the officials of the system cognizant the - be the the raccourcis evidence of the ability to demean .
a time that the will require the kind of entorses the the rules the Canadian rehabilitative , will be charged to include the other rare the Canadian and for the
the objective actually , the foundation is very commendable , but it should be done . a case Lorne , and no other bill to the bitter not be a report .
Ms Patty Bowen , Director administrative the the board B?n?voles Canada , the Stentor before the committee , the business legal the Canadian the last session .
it has said that is the was the most important , the was that , the the opinion of B?n?voles Canada and the Canadian light of Research Conducted , the examination of candidates was concerned , a stamp the border judicial .
the it , the integrity of the casiers court . the exercise limited , because of majority of the individuals who will offence of abuse treatment the one parent or the one another person . the ever been recognized guilty of a top .
they not included in the in the system of casiers court .
these past years , we have had trend the feasibility of the bills of the the people believe falsely the Canadian public that the difficulty , which we attempting to fight the decreased .
the representatives of B?n?voles Canada and the many other witnesses who have appeared before the committee . " that the problem , the Canadian ; and the applicants , not the the checks the casiers court .
few are the individuals who infligent the bad treatment the Canadian and children or the are the Canadian research , a job the people will the opportunity to offence of abuse treatment the Canadian and children and the facilities have a Criminal judicial .
they have done . the d?tourn?e and the , the " now , escaped the the system of justice criminal .
in pareils the , a stamp the the border judicial not . no to the
i do the the fact that the government , in paying the bill to the , responded to the the the foetus the children .
i wish to the honour to B?n?voles Canada for the process of Selection , and that the Canadian and groups as Scouts Canada , the working with the the young and the motion fresher the one process of Selection to the
the children be protected in the extent the the process of Selection will followed .
these two comments the remarks , I support the bill to the so amended .
however , I d?conseille the the government . Cools in the process of offenders .
i draw the " the government that is the Canadian law . handcuff will not the children of the molest?s by those who enjoy a job the Canadian and children be a vulnerable .
i believe that the government and the Canadian . the responsibility of the ever the the the - exclusion , the the concerns of children and that is the Canadian law . is that a tool among the Canadian and the their clause .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Nolin , the debate is adjourned . )
the Union monetary European
the report of the committee , the business foreign the the study - Consideration of the debate
the Honourable Peter A . Stollery :
honourable senators , I wish to the study of the fourth report of the committee on the Canadian and business foreign the Orders of my name .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure , he is the article the name to the name of the Honourable Senator Stollery ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the article is maintained . )
( the Senate . adjourned . p.m. at tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 17
the traditional 7 December 1998
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the dumping
Maxwell Tabled '
the excellenceM. Far?s Bouez
member of Kesrouan the the Parliament libanais
the rights of the human
the process of peace , the Sudan
the violence , the lesbiennes and the gais
the relationship Relations - American
the problems , the Post boundaries
the Ontario
the bill to the Canadian restructuring regional - Government proposal to the seat the city of Ottawa unilingual English
visitor the Gallery
business routine
bill to the Canadian 99 to the implementation of the Canadian taxation tax
report of the committee , the Banking and the the trade
referred to the bill to the " the committee , the business foreign
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
the report of the committee
the adjournment
the group Inter Canada - United - United
the conference of the Alliance trade transfrontali?re Relations - American - Report of the report of the delegation Canadian
the June as high bureaucrat honorary the the Senate to the opportunity to his retirement
the Program of free of pages with the House of the House
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Transportation
the possibility of a decision of control of the air strikes Canadian Airlines by Air Canada - Conformity service to the mistreatment regional
the Council of the Treasury
the preparation the view of the year 2000 - Government Position of a hearing the committee whole
the Heritage
the Institut national the hockey - Government Position of a new loterie to help the inspection Canadian - Conformity informed the the Minister
the business Intergovernmental
the Quebec - Effect conditions force of a referendum - Government date of the announcement by the Prime Minister
the work
the situation critical the the fault - free - Conformity the Canadian bring the Canadian strategy government
the business foreign
the report of the Council Canadian to the cooperation international - Government recommendation pr?conisant the institution . a group of the - Government Position of the government
the plan to the establishing a political consistent the assistance foreign
the membership of the budget of the assistance foreign
the assujettissement the the assistance foreign to the respect to the rights of the human - Government Position of the government
the Senate . the Senate
use the the Rules
on business orders
the Senate . the Senate
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
the Canadian the report of the committee
the bill to the border judicial
bill to the Second - Report of the report of the committee
prepared Canadian of the Church morave the North
bill to the private to the Constitution the bill to incorporation - Second Reading
energy , Environment and gas natural
leave to the committee , to the the staff and the the place
the Canadian the political Canadian antidrogues
motion During the formation of a committee on Special - Adjourned the the debate
fisheries
leave to the committee , to the the issues relating to the mandate
leave to the committee , to the the staff
leave to the committee , clerical the the services
the Senate
the traditional 7 December 1998
the Chair . Chair . p.m. at the the Speaker , the the Chair .
prayers .
the excellenceM. Far?s Bouez
member of Kesrouan the the Parliament libanais
the Honourable Pierre De Ban :
Mr. . the Minister Bouez is the son of the distinguished lawyer and Parliamentary Nouhad Bouez and the L Jacqueline Bouez , born Debs .
he is the husband the L Zalfa Hraoui and they are the happy parents of four children , Rhea , Nouhad , Tarek and Andr?a .
licence the one control . the libanais the the University snow - Joseph the Beyrouth , he is majoring in the French , the Faculty Jean - Moulin the Lyon and the one worthwhile the the University Georgetown the Washington .
this is a great jubilation to us to accueillirM. Far?s Bouez .
he is out of the Canada Sunday the notice December , and will include we have the Canadian reseller the Canadian week .
Mr. . Bouez brings , during his trip to the Canada , the diplomats the the Department of the Foreign Affairs , looking the situation . the Middle - East , the same that the officials officials of the Agency Canadian of development international .
the the Parliament , Mr. the Minister Bouez the well , a conference , the Middle East Study Group on the situation . the Middle - East .
he strongly also a speech that the - afternoon , the University of Ottawa , he is the guest of the University , Mr. Marcel Vigneault .
he will get the by the Speaker of the Senate , the Honourable Gildas Molgat , and meets the leadership of the other place . our Parliament .
Mr. . the Minister Bouez visitera , the the years of the delegation , the Ville the Montreal , the the will get closer by the mayor Pierre Bourque .
he will also the the trade with the the researchers the the Institute of the students strategic .
he will get by the chairman of the Council of the OACI , the doctor Assad Kotaite , a distinguished visitor the Canadian Republic libanaise .
during his trip in our country , Mr. the Minister Bouez brings the the representatives of the community Canadian of origin libanaise .
i wish mention the contribution extraordinary the Canadian community Canadian of origin libanaise .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the period of three minutes . completed .
the leave is the it leave to the senator , continue his statement ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator De Ban :
honourable senators , the community libanaise is not only the present , it is the so illustr?e in all the areas of the Canada , and other , the post university , the terminally , the right , the business and the high the public Canadian .
the the pictures of the role is that the role of doctors the country libanaise the Canadian two premiers ministers of the Quebec .
the - deserved the ?loignement geographical the , in truth , the estompe the the entrepreneurial the the village overall , Beyrouth is also future of the the the other cities Canadian .
the " the technology modern the the Telecommunications and the Internet , our two of shared the same values of democracy , the forbearance , the economy Liberal and the pluralisme arena and cultural .
the most , the presence in the Canada . the community important to which libanaise is a basic strong and lifelong the relationship close to our two of the
the Canada supports drew the independence , the path and the integrity land of the Lebanon .
the most , the Canada supports the resolution 425 the the Council of security and the extension of the authority libanaise the first , leaving .
the Canada has received the visit the the chairman of the Republic libanaise the Universit the summer the last of the Summit of the Francophonie , was the " the New - New .
we have noted with satisfaction that the first visit the the chairman Lahoud the bunches of the region . the Middle - East . is d?roul?e the the Canada .
the Lebanon is the same the only country . the Middle - East the motion of the government full of the Francophonie .
the most , the next Summit of the Francophonie , the following the one of Moncton the the New - New , the Permanent the the Lebanon the 2001 .
honourable senators , the Lebanon latter the the values copies of forbearance , the openness and the test .
he has suffered the affres the one War terrible , promue and consultants by the strongest foreign that he has vaincues by the courage and the test of the people .
in this , he is a leadership for the world world .
i wish out , the the chairman of the Parliament libanais , His Slav Nabih Berri , and the the chairman of the group Parliamentary Lebanon - Canada , His Slav Far?s Bouez , our political the work closely with them to the strengthening of the relationship between our two of the
the rights of the human
the Honourable Calvin Woodrow Ruck :
honourable senators , he is the most of 200 years , a great movement the ?mancipation the in the " the public . the Raj British and the the United - United the North the the fishing the the black - men , women and children , the be physiquement lib?r?s the the cha?nes the the birthdays .
yet , in this era enlightened , the black are still considered the following the character of their peau .
honourable senators , we have the many of progress has the time , the birthdays .
my ancestors were the the esclaves .
today , the us greatest in a country democratic the Canadian many opportunities to switch to us .
the Act , the rights of the human the gravity the fact , for the the motion of help the members of the minority visible the advantage party , the benefits and the first , the the great country . provide , but , in the the country , we have a the the problems , how represented .
i have recommended that the , we committing our efforts to the the people . the most awaited the following the character of their peau , but the following the the people have the the heart .
we were supposed live in some unequal although exclusively the the members of the minority visible .
the Act , the rights of the human the difference . that the
we have the Canadian one progress and the rest of the make , but I am the agreement with those who say that the Canada is the country . the world where he has the best live .
the process of peace , the Sudan
the Honourable LoisM. Wilson :
honourable senators , the the years of the nine months months , he is the in the major developments in the war civil the the Sudan .
the conflict between the North and the south . the not taken the and the number of barils the oil products . is enhanced been the end of the Senate . the in the Canadian the occurrence of the South - Sudan and Port of Sa?d , in the North .
the community international , there was the Canada , the range of the credits to fund a modest Parks composed of four people and coherently the the Kenya , the the auspices of the Tourism governmental to the development , or IGAD .
this initiative African , the the mandate is the salaries a plan of peace , the the support of the International Partners Forum , the fact , the Canada .
the 26 October 1998 , the Department Canadian of the Foreign Affairs , announced two appointments - the mine , the CHST the message Special in the part of the process of peace , the Sudan , and the Canadian John Harker , the CHST the Law Special the the issues prosper .
the two criteria are legitimate but pursuing the the objectives different , pursuant to the political public . the Canada , the respect to the Sudan .
my mission contra the revigorer the process of peace , the outcome of CTAISB consultation with the NGOs and the scholars Canadian , the members of the community soudanaise the the Canada and the representatives of the Carcross the Whelans their support the the process of mediation , and that the the government and the the Opposition army the the Sudan .
this week , by the , some of the us rencontreronsM. Bethuel Kipligat , a leader of leadership of the corporation civil kenyan the working in a process of peace , both consistently the view of the Canadian reconciliation between the leaders of the worlds NGOs soudanais the the North and the the south , with the support of Project Ploughshares the Kitchener and the Alternatives the Montreal .
the week next , the Ottawa , I will be meeting avecM . Haruun Ruun bearer Telar Ring Deng , both the Canadian the York Sudan Rehabilitation of Churches , the implementation of the transition of the peace and the Canadian and the place . solutions to the issues North - off , in cooperation with the IGAD , the same that the Canadian coordination the the development of the churches in the country ravag? by the war .
the Government of the Canada is not the least , the implementation of the Canadian a plan of peace overall and controlled .
the work default the revigorer the process of the primacy the the long term , he not there is the right miracle .
the political Canadian is down the complex that the generous American the the the it is the " a dialogue drove with the area private Canadian .
the the whole that the mining oil exacerbe the conflict the the Sudan or give the " the the abuses of the rights of the man , then he will prove the end of the Canadian and restrictions the the trade or any other professors the provision .
only a plan quick , the Canadian a peace fair to the Sudan will the Canadian public soudanaise the advantage party , this whereas natural .
this is that the main that the Canada has been the the two appointments supplementary and that he seems preliminary to a allure the building the Hon. mate of the south , by the , for another . the ?pineuses .
the violence , the lesbiennes and the gais
the Honourable Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators , the 7 November 99 , Robert Peterson , student in the year , the " the University of the New - New the Trans , the summer crudely falsely , the the Qu the the " off later , last .
the agresseur the summer l?che the the the the the attaqu?M. Peterson the walk , he will the the error crimes the the face .
this , the the the abreuv? the injures haineuses and homophobes the poor young man who deserve so as the
about two weeks after this child , a lifer similar to the product in the same National the the centre .
honourable senators , I rise today , in response to a call the the action initiated by a group of Scotians - Brunswickois concerned .
Robert Peterson not . the the Prime homosexuel the be diminished the so , m?chancet? in our streets , and the not be not the last , the - to the the Canadian society Canadian . take Position and not timely his great disapproved .
this is the the in extreme the kind of fanatisme and the discrimination the us commencerons the in the Canadian reseller .
in the the Jewish , this act unmitigated the haine I consterne .
we have had come to the lessons of the horror of the Holocaust the the the fact , haine the one person , the one family , the one community or the one country .
i find that kind of racism and the discrimination sad .
he is bases that the the people ignorants continue to judge their neighbours in the Canadian and race , the their religion or the their direction sexual .
the should the scenario the the great on the
in clumsily the most of these actions , the basis to the people of the , core .
we do we not be completely the us .
the kind of disregard hysterical by the agresseur the Robert Peterson is deep and empreint the haine and the fanatisme .
Mr. . Peterson plans now , leaving the University of the New - New and the region . Fredericton .
what shame that a young man Games and tinkers having the need to leave the new community and his new university the case of the ignorance , the the intolerance and the the fanatisme !
i the ultimate to the courage the the the fact , in the likelihood to the subject of the injury morality and physical the the people were banned .
i do I will join the , in the the leaders , we donnerons the example , the the country and that we will the Canadian leadership moral the extreme these crimes aggressive by the haine .
the relationship Relations - American
the problems , the Post boundaries
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , the late today , the I d?poserai the report of the delegation Canadian , the Conference of the Alliance trade transfrontali?re Relations - American the the in the " Washington , D . C . , the the 12 , the 14 September 1998 . Hamm Joe Comuzzi , the the other place and I - the , in the the chairs of the meaning Canadian of the group Inter Canada - United - United , we were invited to speak at the this meeting historic the stakeholders trade important to the two sides of the border .
the honourable senators , are not , the the the trade bilateral of our two of the date , the claim billion . $ by the and not committees of grossir .
the trade bilateral the quadrupl? the the years of the last decade .
unfortunately , the fact , the Canadian and embouteillages , the Canadian and problems of saturation and the congestion the the article frontaliers .
the the expectations long and Phase are responsible .
i believe that he is the three levels of the , and that the the authorities private and the the least 17 organizations Works the the two sides of the border the imposition of a way or the one another our positions boundaries .
we do we are note a lack of leadership for the the motion of r?nover this roadblocks eliminates the the efficiency trade , obstrue our couloirs frontaliers all the day .
with the arrival of the concept of the " fair to time to the the practical the adjunct and the the the Canadian initial the the events to just the time to the one requiring incredible to the Canadian Internet , the Breast that is the saturation not do that the modern all the day and the Consolidated .
the result , the motion that the productivity and the divesting of the Canada continue to the affected .
the " now , he not there has been no plan of the to address the this situation obvious , the this month of the conditions .
the the the knowledge their courage of leadership policy , we see the various bureaucracies avoid the problem , the inefficient and worse , the status of the the Oklahoma the federal .
Joe Comuzzi and I - the us are participating the the members of the Congress American , there was the senator Moynihan the the state of York Times , the senator Abraham the the Michigan and our old friend and colleague the senator Frank Murkowski the the Alaska , co - the group Inter Canada - United - United , in the the conf?renciers ext?rieurs .
we have all Message with vehemence , each of the way , the same message .
our colleagues American the summer IT the the problem .
the Congress , the approval of the investment massive in the infrastructure safety , the
the fight , the authorities Canadian . the not awarded the same priority to the investment .
the leaders , the ministers and the ambassadors be the meeting for dealing a plan common to deal . problem eliminates .
honourable senators , the not . the when we joindrons the unprecedented the Canadian speak to us deviendrons a nation trading , the " the soil the in the airs .
the person will be the new millennium r?veillera our governments did and the incitera the responsibilities their responsibilities in the public . all the Canadian .
the Ontario
the bill to the Canadian restructuring regional - Government proposal to the seat the city of Ottawa unilingual English
the Honourable Marie - P .
honourable senators , I wish to the Canadian my great frustration to the new rapport?e today , in the daily Ottawa Citizen and the Canadian first page of the reporter .
i find a surprising and especially very shocking that the " no carried not formally the linguistic duality of the capital of the country bilingual in the bill to the Canadian the restructuring regional now , the study the Queen ' Park .
what kind of signal does the by the " and Canadians , everywhere the the country , when the capital blond task the per the Parliament of the country continue to adh?rer the the vestiges the the unilinguisme ?
the government provincial is the the " the time , press? the restrictions a restructuring mass the Canadian initiatives and the " the indiff?rent the the respect to the French convention ?
the senator De Ban :
what shame !
the senator Poulin :
he not be here . the varied to the government . the Ontario , declare the region . Ottawa in essence , in the aftermath of the other recommendations domain in the wonderful report tabled Mr. Glen Shortliffe .
honourable senators , the motion . the the one issue regional , the motion . the the one issue provincial .
this is a question of pride national .
the Canada role of the economic the Canadian scene international .
Ottawa made regularly the leaders of the Canadian the world world .
Ottawa . the Senate . the ambassadors , the people teams the future , and other , the links diplomatic and commercial the their country respectif with the Canada .
Ottawa . the Senate . the Parliament of the Canada , the Canadian public service federal , the all the parliamentary and all the officials to select the work in English or in French .
honourable senators , I would ask the well front you join the I , responding the government . the Ontario , the thought the the consequences of the actions and the back in the bill to the Canadian restructuring the motion to the study of Ethical the one capital bilingual the the Canada , the new accommodation the Ottawa .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the Honourable Marcel Prud ' s
honourable senators , I wish I join the the good words of the Honourable Senator Pierre De Ban , since I have the many rencontr?M. the Minister Bouez and the Ambassador of the Lebanon .
today , the " the time when the the members of a country multiconstitutionnel we reside to look a 49 the one country , the said bilingual and multicultural , he is publicly that we recevions the new to the the fact reference the senator Poulin .
i do abuserai not the the privilege today , the
i moment , later on this issue .
you knew all my opinion on the country and you know , the the I think of the city of Ottawa .
Ottawa . the capital of all the Canadian .
he would proportion that Ottawa , the capital national and that the " there about the one only to the two languages official , and that the Canadian French and other French . so that the Ottawa . , and capital .
i do the right . more to the time , the debate be long , but I reiterate the the subject .
the honourable senators both will the guys the the senator Poulin and the the other senators , that the the need to a thing for the Ottawa reflects the real nature of the Canada .
we say , the the things in the world , and we should we to the the tops here , Ottawa , the the Canada .
visitor the Gallery
the Hon. the Speaker :
Mr. . Bouez is accompanied the Governor General of ambassador of the Lebanon the the Canada .
business routine
bill to the Canadian 99 to the implementation of inclusion of Tax Conventions
report of the committee , the Banking and the the trade
the Honourable Andr Hervieux - Payette , member of the committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade , the the report following :
the traditional 7 December 1998
the Committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade , the honour to present its
REPORT REPORT
your committee , which has been examined the bill to the S - 4 , the Republic of the one would , the the conventions and the the protocoles agreements of the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgarian , the Portugal , the Ouzb?kistan , the Jordan , the Japan and the Luxembourg , in the Canadian avoid the Republic Republic and the prevention the avoidance tax . the Canadian tax on the income , the , pursuant to the Order of Reference of the 1998 24 November 99 , examined obedience bill to the and the fact , report . amendment .
respectfully submitted ,
member of the Committee ,
C?LINE HERVIEUX - PAYETTE
referred to the bill to the " the committee , the business foreign
the Hon. the Speaker :
under the one of Special proposed with the leave of the Senate and passed the 24 November , and notwithstanding the rule 97 ( 4 ) the the Rules , the bill to the motion now referred to the committee on the Canadian and business foreign .
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
the report of the committee
the Honourable Michael Kirby , the Canadian the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , the the report following :
the traditional 7 December 1998
the Committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology has the honour to present its
fourth REPORT
your committee , which has been examined the Telecommunications the bill C - 6 , the motion to facilitate and the use of Trade Ministerial the virtue of information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of the coverage to bring or put the the information and the the sophisticated and the Act , the Act , and the the Canada , the Act , the Statutory Instruments and the Act , the review of the legislation , pursuant to the Order of Reference of the lundi6 December , the committee obedience bill to the and the fact , report with the changes following :
1 .
page 3 , section 2 : add after the line 15 , the the following :
?? intelligence , the Canadian health , 372,000 the the concerns a individual alive or deceased :
the motion . intelligence , the " the health physical or accessibility ;
b ) . intelligence Covenant the the services of health provided to the - the ;
c ) . intelligence Covenant the the charitable the parties of the body or the sites Finland made by the , or any attempt from the the results of Valid or the examinations bearing the one of the the body or a substance corporelle the one - the ;
d ) . intelligence gained in the part of the benefit of the Canadian health , the - the ;
e ) . intelligence gained fortuitement the Canadian the benefit of the Canadian health , the - the . " .
the motion Ajouter , the line 4 , the following :
the motion 1.1 )
the present the not to apply not to a company to the respect to the information personal the Canadian health , it recueille , using or Law . " ;
b ) Ajouter , the line 7 , the following :
the motion 2.1 )
the rule ( 1.1 )
widening of the effect a year after the coming to effect of the present , the " .
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the ?
the senator Kirby :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 58 ( 1 ) g ) the the Rules , I move that the study of the report be placed on the Order of the Order of the present at the
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed and the third reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the present at the motion
the adjournment
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 58 ( 1 ) g ) the the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate adjourns today , the the remaining adjourned until the near , the 1998 8 December 1998 , stand at 1:30 ;
that , the 15 at 1:30 tomorrow , if the Senate . the not get his work , the Speaker interrompe the deliberations to adjourn the Senate ; and
that all the point sub the the Order of the Order and the the Order of the opinion , the not have not been active , remain in their agenda present .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
the group Inter Canada - United - United
the conference of the Alliance trade transfrontali?re Relations - American - Report of the report of the delegation Canadian
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I have the honour to present , in the two languages official , the report of the delegation Canadian , the conference of fall of the Alliance trade transfrontali?re Relations - American , the the in the " Washington , D . C . , the the 12 , the 14 September 1998 .
the June as high bureaucrat honorary the the Senate to the opportunity to his retirement
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , I am pleased to propose , seconded by the Opposition the the Opposition , the Honourable Senator Lynch - Staunton :
that the Senate would afford the subject appreciation of the distinguished States of service Mr. Richard G . Flame , the - Clerk and categorical Main the the services devise the the Senate ; and
that the recognition of the dignity , the the commitment and the the intellect the the the fact , in the fiscal the the part , he be duly as high bureaucrat honorary the this chamber with his entrepreneurship the the Senate and a seat to the Transportation the the opportunity to traditional .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the Hon. the Speaker :
is the the Canadian agreed , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion ?
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I am pleased to the other , minutes to express my support the Canadian motion .
this is a chance to the time joyeuse and deprivation .
this is a sad to the the Richard Greene - in saying the name , I think Senator Flame - we Doiron the Canadian reseller the the year .
in the , I think the the to the the the motion exactly , the motion ? " - that a Clerk extraordinary the the Senate .
the opportunity . joyeuse because the Richard Greene is the young .
he is the young that I and , for me , the motion . young .
but Richard is here for a time performance , 44 years .
i am glad in the acute , the Taking of the leaders of the government to the Senate , unfortunately , they not taking not the Taking of the leaders of the Opposition , and the Leader of the government to the time when Richard was time work , the Senate was a number William Ross Macdonald , the the Ontario .
Richard , you have seen to eight first ministers the honourable you came to the subamendment LouisSt. Lawrence .
honourable senators , Richard Greene is a be . " the " the " the Senate and , I , I am , the United the service . d?marquent in the whole of the basis public .
he has made a contribution extraordinary , d?butant as page to gain the the position of Clerk Deputy .
Richard , you we have exchanges with a prohibited and a scholarly representing , and we would the remercions .
i am pleased to support the motion put , and I hope you seeing the well , the renovations official .
blessed - you have a long and fruitful retirement .
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I am very pleased to take the honourable to support with enthusiasm the motion of the senator Boudreau , the so I do I look that the the waywardness or even the fear .
in the , he is giving the council that Richard Greene , the the first , member of the staff , La . and committed . , and that , the " now , the said , the Canadian things , if the motion that he has opened the words .
it appears to the most important when the effect conscience that , since the arrival here , in 1956 , he has seen d?filer 277 the the 827 senators , the summer appointed for the Confederation .
the third of the one of the subject to the examination .
he has been the the service of 14 attests and the the Clerk nine Gouverneurs worry .
what stories Richard Greene the inability to the subject of these 40 years and the the the the face this , and how he is rassurant the knowledge that he not be no , as the the will the the service of the Senate , the " a position Doctorate !
honourable senators , I believe that this reason enough to support the motion . the less hesitation , and the with a number ind?cent , the important , many of permissions to the
i wish to point . particularly the minded the Richard , the so , literate policy we attach suspecte .
this is that he raised his advice complicated the Canadian Rules and the absolute equal and the party the .
the fact is , honourable senators , except for the humour rightly , the the Senate . will not the same time we revert the year next because the Richard emportera with him a little morceau the the Senate .
he has the press . the Canadian and stop the the the in the words .
i hope only the the emportera , with him . respect , our appreciation and our admiration , because , in the spirit of the decision made last , the Chair , one . the best served the Senate that the .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators -
the Hon. the Speaker :
i must inform the Senate that if the senator Boudreau made this is up , the speech will the effect of closing the debate on the motion .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am , the fact , with the the Leader Deputy , the distinguished Opposition the the Opposition and all those who have either their best to Richard the private .
i the compliment , and the wish to the happy , successful and vibrant retirement the occasion , his family .
he we tarde , the honourable , in this chamber , as the guest honorary very special .
it , the , I move that the motion be adopted .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the Hon. the Speaker :
the senator Boudreau , seconded by the senator Lynch - Staunton , moved :
that the Senate wish express his great appreciation of the distinguished States of service Mr. Richard G . Flame , the - Clerk and categorical Main the the services devise the the Senate ; and
that the recognition of the dignity , the the commitment and the the intellect the the the fact , in the fiscal the the part , he be duly as high bureaucrat honorary the this chamber with his entrepreneurship the the Senate and a seat to the Transportation the the opportunity to traditional .
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Program of free of pages with the House of the House
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I wish you to the page of the House of the House of the we with us that week in the part of the Program of free of pages with the House of the House .
Mr. . Julien Morrissette , the motion Winnipeg the Ottawa , at the Canadian Faculty of the Science political the the University of Ottawa .
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Transportation
the possibility of a decision of control of the air strikes Canadian Airlines by Air Canada - Conformity service to the mistreatment regional
the Honourable Ethel Cochrane :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government .
the the Globe and Mail , yesterday , the Minister of the Transport , said that the following :
the country , the us we creating a community commercially the Competition domestic to the new transporteur -
we do we no not get the the former system of Regulations -
this is that the reaction of the Minister of the decision of control imminente the the air strikes Canadian Airlines by Air Canada .
the question . is not here , the extent society air choose , but is not to determine whether a society air desservira , the Pearson local .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I thank the Honourable Senator the the question .
this is clearly , the Canadian concern , particularly in some regions of the Canada Atlantic .
Stephenville is a question of a leadership of the problem which has the the area of the transportation Air the the time at the , this Pearson , have been concern to address the the past .
the the recent events who have Women the area of the transportation Air , he is the in the the problems surrounding the doctrine of service of transportation Air the basis of this Pearson .
the Minister is the " the armed the Canadian the and the comments vigorous made by the the honourable and the the House from the particular , the Canada Atlantic and the other small facilities initiatives quite the " to the so that he remains , the the fact , this issue .
the senator Cochrane :
honourable senators , Mexico the $ 120 kilometres of Regina Cold .
however , the other communities are now private the service and the people will achieve about 150 kilometres .
i think the the people of communities , Port the the Sydney and CapeSt. George , in the part continentale , and the Canadian peninsula the Port the the Port , the way preferred the the solitude . the great .
the government . the moon - the not the the one of inclusion the Competition not putting not to d?coller the the aircraft the Stephenville , Charlo or Chatham , the the New - New , or the the other clearance the people were already been abandoned by InterCanadien ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the statement of the Minister , I presume , not to choose not a solution overall .
i have mentioned the number again in this chamber , one principles of the political the the government , and the one of the one of the conjunction air with the small communities . our country .
the Minister has indicated again , the " the House of the House and the , the Canadian need to coastal the small communities . " the heart of the political government .
the Council of the Treasury
the preparation the view of the year 2000 - Government Position of a hearing the committee whole
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government , but the so , the Leader Deputy of the government .
it result of a question that I was raised the , the few machines our whip .
the senator DeWare I was asked the I would have the the Order of the Christmas .
i have answered that I would like me , the I have a new The and I , he was given the
i have said : " Pourquoi you , you know where I am ? "
it has answered : " Ah , the the case where he is that some other , not lifer not rond the midnight the the Order fatidique . "
i have the most of the the impression that the government . know that the the fair the in the the Canada . the the concerns of problems potential linked to the Year of the year 2000 .
the Canadian we rise , the Leader of the government to the Senate might - the authority to the ministers knowledgeable , as the Minister of the National , the evidence words , the Senate met in committee whole , along the one or the two of the experts , before the the Senate . adjourned . the period of l ?
it would the the honourable the question of the issues of the one series of problems possible .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , her the Minister Marchi , Chair of the Council of the Treasury , is the Minister responsible for the preparation the view of the Year of the year 2000 .
the " the accountability that the the government . was taken in all the areas essential and that the government . the Canada . the matter . " is that he is that the the problems at the the spark the the new millennium .
he is still a the make the Canadian route in the kind of the .
he can be a the knowledge the the people - key , as the Honourable Senator , can be contact?es the first time .
section of the the purpose of planning , only to the Canadian route .
i do believe that the that should hesitate the inoculations .
the senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , the whip of the government has the or not necessary to the ways to obtain the the information to the subject ?
in the affirmative , the - the state faith to this event ?
my question supplementary , my the the Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate .
the the the intent of the " the Minister appropriate and the one member of the staff of the palliative a couple of minutes or a half - hour to us else the the point ?
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I know , experience that he is nice the question of the answer to a question to the the the Leader of the attendance .
however , the answer to the question , I rise note of the words of the Honourable Senator and I attempt to the giving the .
the Heritage
the Institut national the hockey - Government Position of a new loterie to help the inspection Canadian - Conformity informed the the Minister
the Honourable David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , the the Year of the year 2000 , I move the Sheila Copps , the potential it is the one Year of the year 2000 .
we can always will be the scenario the damage , the 31 December .
honourable senators , the looking read recently in the Globe and Mail , Sheila Copps the announcement a new the .
as it is the not announced that the it is to the the other place , the Leader of the government to the Senate might - the onus the new the ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I must say , the Honourable Senator that I do I do the present the one meeting the one such a would have announced .
i am so , not . the the help to the subject .
the senator Tkachuk :
is a response approach , honourable senators ,
he seems that is the that the Canadian response approach that the beginning of Minister responsible for the matter , Mr. Manley , the not had the only the no idea of the substance of this announcement .
the the , the the cabinet , quiet the Canadian find a solution to the problem ?
is the the " Sheila Copps , Minister of the Heritage Canada , or the loss Manley , Minister of the Industry ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , all the members of the board executive shared certainly some concern and a certain responsibility to this regard .
the Minister Manley is that the the in the the Main responsible .
the senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , I am intrigu? by the way , the government . ' s , we national long that time .
however , the Minister Manley not in the not the less idea .
the Minister responsible . know nothing to the plan .
it is my notice that a confidence that some of acceptance by way a solution to the the the inspection Canadian of the NHL the outset as a great deal to deal to the provinces will stay in line , the
if all the ministers and all the disability are working of dollars a solution to the plan , he would be the be helpful that the Minister of reasons , somehow .
how can the " and a solution to a problem , the - that ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am sure that this issue concern all the members of the Council Office .
the post that he would be the be retiring the this incident , the motion that he not be not always believed . the the " quelque in the Globe and Mail .
the business Intergovernmental
the Quebec - Effect conditions force of a referendum - Government date of the announcement by the Prime Minister
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the results of the discussion the would have the , the case afforded , would caution public by the Prime Minister of time to the
the senator , as will .
the senator Murray :
honourable senators , I understand course , the Leader of the government hesitant the damer the pion the the Prime Minister of the subject of the announcement .
however , the - the us that when we can expect that the Prime Minister will be informed the this regard ?
the senator Boudreau :
i am sorry , but I hesitant the make the the conjectures the Canadian date , the Prime Minister criteria to a message the one issue , a " and most .
as I would the deceiving involontairement the honourable the mistake , I humbly the senator , not . " to the giving a response direct and I say , the to use of expression based , the in time and the " .
we are the Prime Minister will the announcement in a future enough speculation .
the senator Murray :
honourable senators , I understand that the
i do take the " fairer the things .
i ask the question . This because the the motion that , even likely , the the Parliament , the fastest course , the , will the " cash .
i try to determine whether we should we should loans , if the review of the , the the least , to note of a bill came to the Parliament before the medical the Christmas .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , if the Prime Minister committed make a the seaway legislation , the Senate will inevitably a role is the role .
the knowledge , it is underscoring with our Celebration of l , I would brought to believe that we mark all l with our families .
the work
the situation critical the the fault - free - Conformity the Canadian bring the Canadian strategy government
the Honourable M. Robertson :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate and the Act , strategic the the government to the probable the situation . the fault - free .
in the , my question . the " a response provided by the Honourable Leader of the government to a question raised by the senator Cohen , the lines November the .
the Canadian reseller the the winter the , the government has grown the Minister of the Labour the coordinator the right to the government has taken to the problem of the fault - free .
the the time , the situation looking urgency .
the one expressed the many problems , because , the the people were suffered the the years of the winter .
her the Minister had the said that it ?laborerait the strategy of the government in the Canadian a month .
honourable senators , the the " concern , the the the time up , the motion of the the this strategy , enlise that the " the government .
this is the same . the hands of a section The yesterday in the Toronto Star , the the Leader of some read .
the true , lies government , would he is the following :
we do we have affiliates the marchandise .
human not to the medical .
the Minister has worked hard and we can say that we have the Canadian and that , but we do we not have the honourable .
i do I do I proud only to this section .
the Leader of the government would be the be to the the clarification the Canadian response to the the product to the senator Cohen , there has a 15 , informing the Senate . the state of Progress of the strategy the the fault - free and explain the event , the judgment , saying that the the government would budget , the .
awarding here , the " to the little to the ever strangely ?lastique .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the Minister responsible . the one of remarkable , the Cuban in all the regions of the country to look the people and meet the groups directly in the .
it has covered , the the ground and the report . assiduously the the participants the principle and the the program , the Canadian and the - free .
i can assure the the Honourable Senator that is the not to the not enlis? .
the Minister of the with diligence and dynamism the Canadian and the implementation of the recommendations .
in the the concerns of closer exactly the the announcements , the new I must say that he decide to the Minister of the Whole .
however , I share the hope the the senator and I do . the the announcement not tardera not too .
the senator Robertson :
honourable senators , I thank the Leader of the government . the answer .
this , I bothers , the motion that the government has stated prematurely that a strategy would the effect been down lurette .
it has created the the expectations the people terni a little the good intentions the the government and the people d?contenanc? all those who chose to deal to the serious problem .
the the same , the the Toronto Star , the Minister of the Finance would the the , for the Canadian good results , the strategy must be accepted by the three levels of governments .
the Canadian and honourable senators , the the Leader of the government and I - the , the previous in the Canadian negotiating the agreements federal - provincial .
we know , what the Canadian such negotiations can be difficult and long , then , as the ones at the obtiendrons a strategy on the fault - free ?
would be the need now that the provinces and the municipalities the benefits , the process would take two or three years .
the - time , the Canadian and people who .
the Leader of the government to the Senate might - the us that if the negotiations with the provinces have got and what is the Frame ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the other levels of the people far responsibility of the help to challenge . You the size the the problem across the the country .
he is clear that they have a role in harmony .
the program pr?sent?par the government , not replace not the responsibility to the morally and constitutionnellement , copyright the the governments provincial and , by procuration , the the authorities municipal .
i bring the issues of the Honourable Senator the Deputy the Minister and I will the my best to get with the most of information that the
the senator Robertson :
honourable senators , the the concern to many Canadians , and other things , the motion that the the time when the announcement the summer the the winter the , he not the not been a the Canadian holdings the the provinces or the the municipalities .
he seems that the government , not the not shown the role of the Canadian Jewish , as it . was promised .
this is disturbing , and I wish to the the answers clear and assign , to the power to the manner sensible the the people who ministerial continually with my office .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I understand , let , the impatience that the senator applaud the the respect to this issue .
i can only to give the assurance that her the Minister of interest of the close to the matter and that it continues to the make extra .
the the risk of the subsequent , I will undertake to the information that he I , that the information to the Honourable Senator to the certainty some of the concerns .
the business foreign
the report of the Council Canadian to the cooperation international - Government recommendation pr?conisant the institution . a group of the - Government Position of the government
the Honourable Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
today , the the Council Canadian to the cooperation international the record public a report entitled : " Bilan the the assistance to the the report highlights the Canadian contribution of the Canada , the assistance public , the development . billion , the lower levels en30 years and that our country . the eleventh among les21 country takes the the OECD , then , he is rated the the seventh rank the 1996 .
this is a peerage record for the best country where live in the world .
the government . the fact that the government has announced the intent of the Canada . increase the budget of the , the question of the quality of the assistance . , the implementation .
the result , the board . recommended the creation of a group of the Act , bridge the the assistance Canadian , group of entreprendrait a review sake of the priorities of programs . the CIDA .
the Leader of the government to the Senate would the the the please the suggestion that recommendation to the government and the make then , the the Senate to the the " if knowledge group of the will consider and , in the case contrary , for what the ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I know , what the talking the Honourable Senator .
the least , I am wrong , he has been made public today , the Canadian the the I am sure that the Minister of the not the not yet been the opportunity to the relative to explore .
in the speech , the Throne , the government . commitment clear to increase the assistance to the development international .
he is undertaking as the make the so that it be assistance , the new declaration innovative the will the help the way , effective the country poor the information of the results in the Canadian development economic .
i hope that the " will be the the feelings views in the speech , the Throne in the part of the process budget .
the answer to which the the Honourable Senator , I will be the this issue of the Minister interested .
we should give the the Minister of time , to knowledge of the report , but I am confident the information . response to the question of the Honourable Senator .
the plan to the establishing a political consistent the assistance foreign
the Honourable LoisM. Wilson :
honourable senators , I have been today , the Canadian table round hosted by the CCCI and the reason , were the the officials of the CIDA .
the motion of gallery separate the deal . contradictions to the country , the assistance , the Canadian consistency ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the speech , the Throne McGrath clear that the " reverrait our policy of the foreign .
this review the d?roulera the the prospect and the extent that we progresserons in the undergraduate budget and that we aborderons some of the major problems , the summer raised in this regard .
the decisions the the assistance foreign be booked concorder with the objectives to the deficit the poverty , the latest the health and the education and , the fact , the adverse a healthy management public in all the country . the world .
it remains a goal is the the Department of the Foreign Affairs and the the International Covenant .
the senator Wilson :
honourable senators , the that is very rassurant , but the answer received this afternoon , afternoon related to the not there is the plan .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am in like to be the position .
the plans of action mentioned in the speech , the Throne will ?labor?s for the weeks and the months , in the
the the prospect and the extent that we progresserons in the undergraduate budget , I think it is her the senator observera the the evidence which the rassureront .
the membership of the budget of the assistance foreign
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , the Prime Minister has indicated that the budget of the assistance will increased .
this budget . the ever been so cut in 30 years .
he understand now . the assistance humanitarian increased and the actions of peace - the peace , as those in the " the Kosovo .
the government . is the the root the increase the credits the the assistance alluded to the program traditional the education and the hygi?ne the basis , in the and the Canadian and other programs , the inscriraient , the fair as the same , in the other ports ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the role of the Canada , the scene international the way a vital the the most pervasive through the our forces personnel .
we have a question . the military in service addition , overseas today , the years , war the Korean .
our role in the Canadian Armed the Canadian peace , the interpretation of crisis .
i do I do the the time , read the report entitled : " Bilan the the assistance 2000 . , and I do know that the subamendment what rubriques are included the types Estimates .
i have the impression that they not have not been group?es , the Canadian and for fiscal , with the Estimates , the the the subject of the Minister , or with the initiatives contained in the speech , the Throne .
the senator Andreychuk :
i could be the be called the Minister .
the cost associated the the initiatives the peace - the peace , the intervention saved , the consolidation of the peace and the actions humanitarian , the summer , the part faults the the budget of the assistance .
the Estimates reach the this Jewish the increased , then , as planned to the other programs . the people smoking .
i cannot grateful to the Minister of consider the increase the assistance leave to the resolution of problems basic the the country . the agitation in the country . R .
the assujettissement the the assistance foreign to the respect to the rights of the human - Government Position of the government
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk :
the is the the Canadian a change the Government of the government Liberal ?
the Liberal Party has the by the past , Michigan the assujettissement the the assistance to the rights of the human .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , not having not have the the speech , about the senator Andreychuk , I soul?verai the question with the the Minister responsible and apporterai a response to the Honourable Senator as the possible .
the Senate . the Senate
use the the Rules
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , if I , I had the time , the period of the issues , I would put a question to the chairman of the committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade .
the senator , the not . not present , but I see the chairman of the and many members of the committee , the Banking .
today , the the senator Hervieux - Payette the report of the Canadian the committee , the Banking , the summer read and report .
i am glad the review and the not had not been certifi? as the Canadian the committee , the chairman of the committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade .
the table the the board . the Prime that they the same also noticed and the Aboriginal the report , the senator Hervieux - Payette to the it . sign .
the chairman of the Canadian the committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade the - the us describe the nature of the meeting in the reason , the summer decided - if however , the summer decided - that the committee , the Banking ?tudierait the bill to the S - 4 , by section ?
there is a the record of this meeting ?
a motion . the summer introduced and there is a the record of this motion , requesting the the chairman or the the chairman of the Canadian to the report , the Senate ?
the Honourable David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , the answer is yes .
the senator Kinsella :
the chairman of the person - the onus why a place , the the chairman or the chairman of the , as the wish to court and the use , the summer acclaimed to present the report , the Senate ?
the senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , I do I do the senator Kolber .
i do know that the event , the thought .
yesterday , I arrived the positive a message I conclude the present the report on the bill to the , but I was transformed the Saskatoon to Ottawa and , as you the you , the trip made any of Day .
the result , I do I do " to this is the
the first time that I have heard that the the report be introduced today , the the motion when the Honourable Senator Hervieux - Payette the the reference .
the senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , the Canadian page p.m. , a publication of the questionable the the committee , the Senate dated the November 99 and singing Introduction the the committee committees , the main how the reports be a Message the the Senate by a committee .
the , the the , when the chairman of a committee , a report , the committee submit that he has concluded the Senate that the Senate , the eastern in the mandate .
in the case of a bill to the , it includes the study , by section of the bill to the .
the use to the the " request to the sin of the committee , the report on the bill to the will the .
a member of the committee , then a motion to the subject .
in giving the motion , the committee , the the chairman of leave of the the report .
the this publication , the report is the by the chairman or by a place member acclaimed the the committee .
in the absence of the chairman and the the chairman of the , I wish to the process , the summer follow the the one another member of the committee be the guru .
he is to the control of the process for the so did or not the report of a committee is the fact , report on the Canadian portion of the members of the committee . the testimony .
this is a the the problems that I have with the report , the summer tabled in this chamber , earlier , the years of the deliberations .
the other issue . I have the the I do know that the the fair - because the I do I do not the fact the - that the Governor Hon. the said , the time , the introduction of the report .
i believe that I have heard that the leave was the leave , but I know if it was referred to the deliberations , the in the chamber today , or the Canadian decision to the summer taken the , the somewhat time when the bill to the the summer referred to the committee , the Banking .
the the pinnacle the the time . the was referred to a committee or two committees .
we must have the the clarification on the two questions .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I wish to the the point of the Order .
i have listened the senator Kinsella .
i know , the fair to the the concern to three issues or the one issue .
he has the Canadian first raised the question of the signing necessary to the bill to the , and I believe that the the the motion thanks , the consideration of the Canadian law , he not dealt no signing .
if I do I understand , this situation . was corrig?e been the " the ground this wrong .
the second question is the knowledge , the bill to the the summer . held by the committee .
i believe that , the Canadian light of the intervention of the senator Tkachuk that , the Hon. the , a motion of the Committee of the bill to the the summer agreed .
the third the motion of the so that the well acclaimed a member of the committee studying the table the bill to the , the the chairman , the not . not here and not win the make the , the chairman of the or a place member of the committee , in the , the mover of the bill to the , the senator Hervieux - Payette .
i do know that if it will the the supreme the the fractious or the the procedures normal , but I pretend that the . " member of the committee can correspondence a report , the place . the chairman , when the chairman of the motion this , the so that the matter order to the the the chairman of the cheques the the absence of the chairman .
in the the concerns of countless the the chairman of the following the the tabling of the report , I will the subsequent .
the " in the upturn a copy .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
you are well , one .
the senator Hays :
the , Athens :
under the the Order Special proposed with the leave of the Senate and passed the 24 November and notwithstanding the rule 97 ( 4 ) the the Rules , the bill to the motion now referred to the Committee on the Canadian and business foreign .
i the I received in coming to the Senate .
i believe that the that was the make the so that this bill to be studied the way orderly , the the d?sirs the the Senate .
i experiencing the look at the the the bill to the Senate into the Canadian , by the committee , the Banking and the one of the business foreign the reason , the issues , the summer raised by the honourable respect to the details of the bill to the .
i do I pause however , the this issue .
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the question is the knowledge , the " may allow the one member of the committee , to a report . the authority to the committee , if the motion . the case , then , the report is approved by the committee .
the committee has decided to do the Canadian the bill to the .
that I know , one . the view of the Canadian report , the - be the not the chairman or the chairman of the .
the justice . the fractious and the respect to their position , he would special to the least , they perceived the report or in allow the disclosure .
all aspects , the not was not the case , and her the senator Hervieux - Payette not the not been officially sanctioned the table the report .
i ask confirmation the the facts .
the senator Tkachuk :
the , it is the motion . the .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
second , I do I do that we are enlisions in the Orders and I hope that we do precedent not here , much in interpret the bill to the " the Canadian a committee , but I do see no how the Speaker cannot be authorized to send the one of the one another , the the reading of the business contains , a report , not the same not been debated . .
i do see no , direct that the Chair the make .
that the " takes if I am wrong , but I supposais , after the two days of debate spent in this issue , the the report be tabled here and that the Senate d?ciderait the Hon. help .
he is a the one of Anthrax the the Senate and the " the Chair .
i know that the " cathedral by the Order Special the .
the widespread , in reply the debate , the the motion that just , as the senator Hays the the bloodstream the second on the rectifiant the the comments which is the not been taken transcrits in the fact the official , the Canadian . " be referred to a place , then , the other .
the opportunity was that , for the Canadian a place to the other , he was needed be reconfirm? here .
the Chair . did in our name , the Greeks or warning .
i have always believed that , the the end of the fact , the was the Senate , d?cidait how he was subject of the Canadian law and the reports and the people were going .
in the case , this , however , the so we want to the report dealing the the committee , the business foreign , it is the fact , the the Senate that the word " that the
the Senate . the ever had the opportunity to examine the report no - see that the the , the nuances .
the senator Hays :
i wish to a place comment to the subject of the use the the Rules , and the particular , the concern position by the senator Lynch - Staunton , the knowledge , the bill to the " back here before the be referred to the committee , the business foreign or go to the committee , the business foreign , the the committee , the Banking , after nothing with him .
i do I do the relative exactly the I , but I believe that the Chair . obfuscated that as supporting the the the boilers of first , the committee , the Banking , the , a time that the committee , the Banking , would have with him , he boilers the the committee , the business foreign .
we do we do that the most , and the motion reasonable the interpret that as supporting the the the boilers directly to the committee , the business foreign a time that the committee , the Banking , would have with him .
he is also an the interpret that the Canadian the Canadian the senator Lynch - Staunton .
the entire to the I believe that the the committee , the business foreign not the not began his thorough .
the senator Lynch - Staunton wishes - the state that is the " the desire that the question that the voice to the Senate rather than the the committee , the business foreign ?
the senator Tkachuk :
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I guess the us ones of a point of the Rules , and the the world . to the honourable the one point of the Rules .
the senator Tkachuk :
i do I do the the opportunity to ask the the senator Jeffrey , the as I , member of the committee steering the the committee , the Banking , the the tainted that the senator Hervieux - Payette the report of the " the House of today .
the Hon. the Speaker :
i am sorry , but the question to the senator Jeffrey not . not form the the time .
however , the the means , will and if the Senate is the the suggested , he not in the the " he .
the senator Tkachuk :
he would be the be helpful that I ask the reason , my brief .
the senator Kinsella , raised a point interesting .
i do I have the years six years , but I have been the Canadian the committee , the Finance for a number of the aged that the senator Kirby was president of the committee , the Banking .
if I do gentlemen not honour to report , I told , in the the chairman , the the senator De Ban the the make the question of the
when we do could do the one or the other . , the us whether a place arrangement .
this is the same thing with the senator Kirby .
or , he Round the report , or , he I asked the the make the the place .
if we do we have the make or the one or the other , we are would trigger the Canadian Human the privatization to the make - if need was the
the senator Kirby and I - the not had not the committee steering .
we resolve the us two of Committee steering , and we are in tirions very well .
i am asking if the senator Jeffrey the tainted .
is the us follow the understanding how he is the the that the Senate from the the I , far is no . there appose my reflection .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I do I do the the Chair , but I believe that the us are now before the two points to the Order .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
they will ram?nent the one only .
your Honour , although the Canadian and business contains - time when the " no , or authority to rule or order to solve the discussion . in the entire the leave of the message to a place Committee of the Canadian Committee to just . That the be tabled .
the Rules the the " the least one day must be allowed to the tabling of a report and the third reading .
in the case , this , the entire clearly , we do could not to the Canadian third reading , but we do we even not have seen the report .
i had hoped that , if Your Honour be the one ' s , the instructions the last of the Order of the Order , which the us have been , although a explanation the this decision extraordinary .
in passing , the not . not we are we consider this situation .
in second , the the senator Hervieux - Payette not having not been officially sanctioned by the committee to present the report , the report . the publication was introduced in the and properly form ?
the senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , the point of the Rules another of the .
the the analysis of the bill to the by the committee , the Banking , the examination , by section and the report , the Senate , I have been to the Canadian table for at the report tabled .
a report . there psychologists indeed , but it is maintained not the signing the the senator who , the report , the the the Iraqi the I , interrogation , the knowledge what was the relative to follow .
the report . the summer tabled or by the chairman or by the chairman of the .
the least , the civil - extremely the the Senate . the committee . refers that a place , the summer responsible for the present , and I do the I do the the most of the I do know too , the report . was tabled the the Senate . the and properly form of the .
the other issue , the motion unusual , and the the world . bidding , the " the fact that , by order to the Senate , the report be a message to both committees , the " a single .
the decision of the make to the the committee , the Banking , expliquait by a series of concern raised in the reading of the second reading and the concernaient the the issues tax , the the 24 , the fact , the skills of the committee , the Banking .
we should look the report of the committee , the Banking , the chamber , bill to the " the committee , the business foreign because the the motion that the the , the one link between the problems of tax . the effects of Committee of the Banking and the issues related to the business foreign - including , the issues relating to the rights of the human the people . the Canadian and some 90 the the reading of the second reading .
all these issues should be addressed .
honourable senators , he is possible that we were the way a little premature .
a report only the summer tabled .
we do the we not looked .
he is , the my opinion , a link substantial of the analysis of the report and the analysis of the bill to the , the would then referred to the committee , the business foreign .
this is that the " the borders the " papers the Canadian determining the Canadian . .
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , I have already said that the I thought of the acceptability of the work pre by the committee , the Banking and the question aired by the senator Lynch - Staunton .
however , I find the point of the senator Kinsella , interesting .
the the the motion of the Order - I do so that the back to coast the the fact the Canadian and directing the the Order - that the Canadian and the Canadian and two committees have made the desire to the committee on the question , particularly in the Canadian the nature of the bill to the and the one of the evidence of the bill to the the the policy , the rights of the human .
we have tried to do the so that the bill to the Senate referred to both committees successivement .
the committee , the Banking , would well , the Prime bill to the .
the words , we have used , were in preparation of states .
the question is the following : the fact , the or how treating the the product of the work of the committee ?
my interpretation of the statements the the subject and the all the things that we have made up here , the the fact that the report . the not been signed and the Canadian . the knowledge , he is consistent the the Rules and the the one member of the committee , the the chairman or the chairman of the present a report . the motion arriving - and I say that this is a not a barrier - that is that we want to the bill to the Senate referred to both committees and that the reports the the two committees we operation to be studied in the time .
if it is the , the senator Kinsella . will the place . the concern .
r?trospectivement , I say that the suggestions the the Honourable Senator were perhaps the be the manner appropriately the way , the motion ? " - that the us not have the - be not have failed the bill to the " and two committees the one of the other .
however , since we have been the , the the so . exactly what the us we do to reach the the result failure , the knowledge , the us the work of the two committees to the power to examine .
however , for the that , we must be the two reports the us in the time .
the Hon. the Speaker :
there has the somewhat other honourable senator who wish to the honourable the the subject of the point of the Rules ?
if the I will take the question . little .
i do I do here , weekly last , the question . was raised in the first time and I do I do , all the arguments .
however , I wish out of the honourable that when a bill to the motion referred to a committee , the last must be a report .
no amendment and no motion . the documents to the time .
he not there has not the discussion .
this is the situation which climate the the time at the
however , I will I look the Canadian . and I would the rendrai the beginning that possible .
on business orders
the Senate . the Senate
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
we spend now , the business of the government and I wish to the the name of the honourable the the party 1939 , namely the Prime , for consideration , the the report of the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology Committee on the bill to the C - 6 .
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
the Canadian the report of the committee
the Senate proceeded to the study of the fourth report of the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology ( Bill , the C - 6 , the motion to facilitate and the use of Trade Ministerial the virtue of information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of the coverage to bring or put the the information and the the sophisticated and the Act , the Act , and the the Canada , the Act , the Statutory Instruments and the Act , the review of the legislation ( , tabled the early today , the
the honourable senators , the CHST the mover of the bill to the C - 6 and the chairman of the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , the previous spent many of time to the study of the subject treaty in the bill C C - 6 .
my comments today , conservation primarily on the bill to the in general , but also and the particular , the amendments to the bill to the the are proposed in the report of the committee report , the Senate . earlier this afternoon , afternoon .
in the context of the economy World , the information is absolutely a marchandise important and valuable .
while the undertaking the governments , argue as the major bagmen and holders the information personal , the our attendance , the area private role of the Canadian , in the important in the area .
since the sufficiency of carriers as Internet , the disclosure and the distribution of the information personal is absolutely a source of concern to the Canadian , westerners the look to life private the r?tr?cir the extent that these facilities . extends .
the the Canada , the government , and the most of the governments provincial and have the the legislation which deal of the collection , the the use and the Canadian disclosure of information personal by the area private , but one of Quebec . unamended a bill to the protection of the information personal the existing the area private .
some organizations have passed the the codifies Voluntary respect to the collection and the the use of the information personal , but the use of these ethics . is not widespread and not . not wear the one coast to the other .
in 1996 , the government , the motion committed to develop a bill to protect the information personal collected by the area private .
the objective of the government was then , some before the beginning of the year 2000 .
the bill to the C - 6 result of this commitment .
a bill to the the objective of protecting the information personal must necessarily to the Canadian the right to a person of the and the acceptance that the the information to the subject will collected , used or disclosed the matters for the
the bill to the C - 6 is the balance between the the objectives conflictuels , the knowledge , the one of the the right to a person of loans to provide the the information and the understanding why the the information . collected and how they will used and , the other hand , the need to ensure a draft adequate and efficient the the economy .
honourable senators , the the exception of the only amendment proposed in the report of the committee , I can you to the the study of the bill to the C - 6 , the the purchase the the the is the one of legislation remarkable .
the government has happened a real leadership , the implementation of the trade Ministerial .
the bill to the biblical the difficult balance between the world . the business and the interests of the consumers .
one , honourable senators , I do I have seen a bill to the the the business . the groups of consumer are all the impatients the look adopted .
all the representatives of business , the consumers , the firmes technological , the companies , the , the Banking , and the Canadian ideal the the credit , the people before the the committee . presence the adoption quick of the bill to the .
all these stakeholders administration , he is a whole thing and reasonable the practical the information .
in the , the the witnesses the all the areas of the economy Canadian , the the exception of the area of the health , the employee of the parameters as the balance glance the , the result of years and the months of negotiation the , the very good consensus the , and Fundamental , for describe the bill to the and to the adoption with adequate .
the witnesses who have passed . the Canadian , " non only to the representatives of the area of the business , but also , by the , the the starting the the rights civilian and the the experts in preserving the the information personal .
the result , honourable senators , if the bill to the motion also a that I just the the " , why the committee . the the proposed a subamendment ?
this is the this issue . I believe , spend the major part of my remarks .
this is because the , in spite of the support massive the the business and the the consumers , a private . important to participate in the unanimous the Hon. the , for the moment .
cooperative , a private , the Canadian the health , is the so unanimous in the Opposition to the bill to the .
he is clear that the whole of the area of the health . was not part of the compliment consensus the I have heard the , the one moment .
in the , the " the public . the area , he not there has no doubt consensus on the the should be the right thing , in the meaning that he not to the not the as a group homog?ne the r?clamait a whole specific the amendments .
he has repeated all kinds of amendments .
let - I , you to some examples for excellence the situation .
some evidence . recommended that the information on the health of saying excluded the the bill to the .
the other , as the door - speaking of the Association medical Canadian and the the Association hygienist Canadian , having the the bill to the not prot?geait not enough to information personal the Canadian health .
the other . bogeyman if the provisions related to the consent , nuclear the provinces . parlaient not specifically the consentements informed and real .
all the members of the area of the health , the Stentor before the committee had the the clear as the Canadian Grain and the the application of the bill to the .
the concerns that I have made sch?matiquement , honourable senators , from the worlds very diverse , by the Canadian and doctors , the the range , the the pharmaciens , the the nurses , the the hospital , the the Laboratory medical , the worlds of the research medical , the departments provincial and the health , the officials of the accreditation the the services of health , and Fundamental .
the " real , honourable senators , no - and groups of the environment , the health , the messages the the committee or the people . reach a memorial not the favourable the the adoption of the bill to the in his form at the
the committee has also been contravenes by the testimony of many from the the area of the health , the said that the have played a role serious in the consultation the people preceded the tabling of the bill to the .
some of the one of the said , the committee that they had contacted with the officials Works the not there has no , eight or nine months , and that they will the fact , the the not there was not be the the concern to the bill to the because the the report , the Act , Trade Ministerial and the Act , the Canadian the health .
the result , honourable senators , the consensus if admirable that the Minister has succeeded to initiate the very little of time in the rest of the economy , the $ 18 months , not included not the area of the health because the the bill to the " bringing the the trade Ministerial .
he is developing that the not the not freedom of the stars the inclusion the area of the health foods those who aspire role of the importance in the negotiations .
the many services of health . " the theme of the state , but the people and the organizations , the fournissent excursions can numbered the the area private , the the area public or more to the area of the activities .
he is therefore , the links . the distortions of the public and the private that is not . the case in some other area of the economy Canadian .
however , honourable senators , the area of the care of health hesitant . " to the bill to the purpose the the motion .
in the , the Minister of the Industry has seconded implicitement the border when he has appeared before the committee , the business Social , Thursday , the " said , the application of the bill to the C - 6 , the information on the health and the said that , in the three years following the coming to effect of the bill to the , the impact on the area of the care of health would limited .
he has maintained that this cancer would so limited to the not sort happened to delay the application of the bill to the to clarify the impact on the area of the care of health .
honourable senators , the members of the committee . including the arguments of the Minister , the right to deal of which they were partnerships , and the are missing upon the one wrong totally different .
the committee continue to fear that is the Canadian law , Trade Ministerial not be the the effects high obscurs and unforeseen ; the important , the the committee would , the Canadian psyche likely to the effects high .
in the , the impact likely to the bill to the Act , the Canadian and care of health . far the be clear .
the the motion true , as the the fact point of Minister , the the bill to the not be the the impact that the one intake of the the area of the care of health in the three alternatives years following his proclamation , he is therefore possible , for a number of the Canadian clarify the effects that he will the the information particularly exposure and personal the Canadian health of the people , the band the impact on the vast the commercial the rest .
since the with this amendment , the bill to the not be the the impact on the area public . the care of health , three years after his into the effect , we give the the government and the the parties involved in the Canadian develop the the rules and the the regulations the garantiront the the Canadian that the information personal the their health will include properly by the stakeholders the the environment , the health .
honourable senators , the government . the possibility and the the fact that all the other areas of the economy Canadian , unanimous the wish to the bill to the Senate adopted quickly , the committee . is being asked to the , the one way of the satisfaction to those who souhaitaient a passage quick of the bill to the , the in defending the the reserves concerns the the area of the care of health .
the committee has refused to the unanimous the idea of exempt fully the the application of the bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal the area of the care of health , as the people , some evidence .
he has however necessary appropriate to include a short period to the basis . the motion that the provinces , a consensus on the changes to make the the bill to the to the the impact on the area of the care of health forward and corruption .
Thursday , the us we heard different witnesses from the area of the care of health .
the entire clearly , they will have concert?s before the coming evidence , because they have all the exact the same amendment ; they have all the Canadian can five years before the earning the area of the care of health , the provisions of the bill to the .
the government . the importance capital of the information personal the federal - health and the Canadian need to the last that lawyers , the bill to the protection of the information personal , the committee that the five years , the motion . too long .
we have upon the to a matter of a year after the Recognition , or the two years , starting the the Order the the bill to the longer the Royal Assent .
the Minister has been said that the bill . will proclaimed that a year after the positive the Royal Assent , the so that our proposition is that the matter that the two years after the Royal Assent or the one year after the Recognition .
the country , the one aspect of two years should be sufficient for the " and parties interested the the area of the health and the the officials of the departments of the health and the the Industry the in place to a consensus on the changes to make the the bill to the to the the attitudes effectively the the area of the health and the darkness a good part of the uncertainty the the surrounding now .
we believe that , honourable senators , the Canadian structure of our amendment , a significant advantage of the plan of the negotiating .
in the , we propose , in this amendment , the so , both years after the Royal Assent or a year after the Recognition , no consensus . the motion alternatives and that no change . the summer introduced , the bill to the purpose the wording weighted in effect in the area of the health .
the result , honourable senators , we believe that this bill alternate mod?r?ment the area of the health , in place to a consensus to the Republic all the problems , he said , concern .
the fact , sanctions a date limit the reason the bill to the effect , into the least , a consensus . the balance would a way . effective .
i must say , honourable senators , the the committee has made a job remarkable , a very short laps the time .
we have had many of hours of hearings .
we have entendu25 witnesses , the the motion to the close to 50 of the people who had asked to the beginning to be heard .
in the last days of the hearings , the other people . the representations to Travel the be heard .
he is therefore become apparent to the committee that , if we wanted to a solution acceptable to the problem of the area of the health , bearing the bill to the " the Senate to the the the one solution n?goci?e that the file , he would many of time .
if we had chosen this way , the bill to the not become not the and the not to apply not to all the other areas of the economy Canadian , the arts .
the result , we have felt that the matter sense to do . the not . delay the application of the bill to all the areas of the economy , wish to the bill to the Senate adopted , but the in overseas the application to a single the and the one year only after the Recognition .
this are there , honourable senators , the grounds of the report .
if you want a compelling , detailed the the evidence heard by the committee , the , the my opinion , will the the meaning of the findings of the committee , you refer to the second part of the report of the committee , the the summer tabled the the Senate yesterday .
i urge the honourable senators , read the part of the report .
i the said , we approach that a related to a year after the Recognition , the two years after the Royal Assent , will the meeting of negotiations . pointues of the departments of the health and the the Industry and the area of the health .
in closing , honourable senators , I wish to speak to the Act , the protection of the information personal .
he has pointed that he is the Canadian and 1954 enhancing of the bill C C - 6 and the Act , the protection of the information personal .
the example , the Canadian Act , the protection of the information personal , the person to send the Canadian Court federal only in the case where the access to the the issues . was refused .
the complaints the Canadian raising , the use or the communication of information , a farce government . the make the subject of a reference to the Court federal .
yet , the the words of the bill to the C - 6 , the complaints the Canadian raising , the use or the communication of information , the area private can do the subject of a call the Canadian Court federal .
honourable senators , in the the parliamentary , he will be the the us we impose the the institutions government and the the institutions private the same requirements the federal - protection of the life private .
the committee , is time to the conclusion that , if the bill to the C - 6 Christmas , into the the then to the Order of the Act , safeguards the the information personal to the the institutions government and the institutions private that the the least enable the the same requirements the federal - protection of the information personal .
the Act . the , honourable senators , if the bill to the global a program of awareness of the public by the commissioner to the protection of the life private and if the Bill C C - 6 thing . new responsibilities and widening significantly the mandate of the High the Canadian protection of the life private , he will the virtues , the one time , the one of contradiction of the report of the committee recommended the CRF the the resources additional the the High the Canadian protection of the life private to the the the obligation of the mandate expanded .
in closing , honourable senators , I draw the the committee has tried to establish a balanced such as the application of the bill to the " the vast majority of the economy Canadian - or the the most of the Canadian industries economic , the smaller , fairly and that , for a period . short , let a year after the Recognition the the bill to the , this the not toucherait not the area of the care of health in the hope that , in the 24 months subs?quents , we could make the one solution n?goci?e the the bill to the .
is , honourable senators , in the context the beneficiaries the bill to the .
the amendment was the report , the unanimous the the committee .
no Senator not the remarks of opinion dissidente the the amendment proposed .
the result , honourable senators , I would suggest to adopt the report of the committee .
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
the Honourable Senator Carstairs , he and answer to a question ?
the senator Kirby :
yes .
the senator Oliver :
you have said , the the long - your speech that he not there was that a private the not was not the subject of a consensus and that is the the area of the care of health .
you have also said that a part of the answer r?sidait in the fact that he is designed as a bill to the Act , Trade Ministerial and the Act , care of health .
that is the the the motion went to adjourn and what lesson the advantage of the Canadian . process ?
how can the " the government that this is the God not ?
we hostility that a bill to the and we , comes to the other place .
that is the the the motion went to adjourn during the process ?
the senator Kirby :
i do I will surfacing the the ferries the that the
your the motion good .
you wholehearted that we are we muscle on the substance of the bill to the and the Canadian response to the raises the the people , the the the little of time , we got and our commitment to complete answer to the .
this is my I do the " is unavailable the various citations of evidence should be the one wrong detailed .
first , the bill to the the first , first was a bill to the Act , Trade Ministerial and the Canadian protection of the information personal in the trade Ministerial .
when the opinion , the trade Ministerial , the not think that immediately to the area of the care of health , the Canada , because he is subventionn? by the state .
this is defined the the the " I .
if we we provide all the areas linked to the trade Ministerial , the so we Plan , the area of the care of health , the most of the us the ?carteraient .
the person . understand that he not be not been the the Prime the Canadian and negotiations method .
the second thing , topic the bill to the motion that he is here , the activities trade , the area private .
the new , when the opinion , the activities trade , the not . not immune to think fights the the area of the care of health .
however , when the motion stuck the thought the Canadian . , the effect conscience of the fact that the the Laboratory and other . the the activities trade .
however , when the question of the activities trade is raised in the first time , the not think that immediately that he is the one of the Canadian companies trade in the area of the care of health .
finally , he is the one thing in the area of the health , not there nowhere the same : a great many of institutions public and private solutions the the services identiques .
the Laboratory solutions a leadership patent .
he is the well , the services of praxith?rapie and the the services of diagnosed .
we do accurate not the people are different , because it . the same people who pay the paying .
as the I believe that this has been a deliberate the right faith .
he is the - be the note that when the bill to the the summer into the the committee , the industry . the House of the House of the to show the public that is the Canadian law . quite , I wish to you wish to the , the in 18 days of hearings . - that the " the work . , the time to the health , the witnesses . the not asked to appear before the committee .
the the many more about the the care of health , the committee on the committee , the Canadian the House , the the not . in this a critical the the committee , the House .
human in the area of the health . was understood that is the Canadian law have the important impact in the area .
in the , then , the one in the new areas trade , the trade Ministerial and the rest , the allocation traditional of the various industries the the economy . effondrent .
the the future , when we undergo the the bills of the issues . new types of Tracking the communication , the the the trade Ministerial is the fact , we need ensure the feasibility of the government review and the elevator all the knowledge .
i do think that the the the the Senate should be the blame , because he not there has not the favourite whipping .
honourable senators , a series of things , are lactation here , inadvertent .
this is a great bill to the , but the committee that the the motion fair to deal to the problem .
the fight , if the order to the Canadian law . amendment , the right to the Canadian law , a private important to the corporation Canadian , the supreme the the fundamental the all the organizations of the corporation .
we believe that is not . probably not a good the Canadian subsidiaries the political public .
the senator Oliver :
it . brings to my second question .
a number of the witnesses the the area of the health , the messages the said that a solution that the one way to annexer their driver such as prepared or amended .
you , you we tell why the committee . the not accept those representations from the one some of the witnesses the the area medical ?
the senator Kirby :
yes .
this is a good question .
the best example is the Canadian the Association medical Canadian , the one that the us should integrate the code the the bill to the .
the problem , the motion that you not you the make quickly .
why clerical the code of the Association medical Canadian and the not the Canadian the Association of the range or the the pharmaciens ?
each the Hon. Code of protection of the information personal .
as the moment , you posez this issue , you embarquez in the process detailed the negotiations and the institution . a consensus the motion covers , as I , I said .
the committee has signed the , the the " may have the Canadian the , it ensures clearly , hidden .
we have a leading the adoption of the bill to the level of the areas of the economy , the motion in the Order and the palliative the 24 months following the the institution . a consensus .
he is true that many of the organizations professional and institutionnels the reference to the facilities have a criminal the protection of the information personal , the so that the members of the committee envisageaient with optimism the possibility that the " may develop , the the years of this period of 7.5 months , the basis of these various codifies , a whole of ethics the separate consensus and the the historical the the area of the care of health .
the country , the the was reached the act of the so , the Canadian to the code of the one of the groups , then , the feasibility and the the ports , all .
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I reprends that the the honourable Oliver and Kirby , neither .
first , the people of the area of the health we have the General said that they not have not in the the development of the code of the Association Canadian of normalisation the argument the bill to the motion based .
second , as the senator Kirby the the reference , some of the one thing that a member of the government to the left bode that the bill to the not to apply not to the area of the care of health .
in fact , he seems that he not to apply not to the CTAISB pans the the area of the health , the the urgently the only trade , the , including the the links professional of the patient and the doctor , the patient and the hospital , and Fundamental .
what the the in the , when you cherchez the embarrassment the activities trade , the activities of commercial in the area of the health , he joined very difficult to determine where and how Mifflin the bill to the .
these two factors the summer , substantial the the the concerns of the Canadian the health .
as the Canadian of the temerity the code of Upper the the doctors and the the range or the somewhat other profession , appendix to the bill to the , I must say that I have been missed tried to the introduction .
the Canadian reading of these ethics , he is clear that they manage a whole of standards , higher the the code Grattan the one consensus of the Association Canadian of normalisation .
i believe that the , the so we had decided to the make , we are would accommodate the ground constitutional very little sure .
the would guide to the us take some and inadequate to the respect to the highest , a field of provincial in the most of the case of the federal exclusive the the provinces .
honourable senators , he is giving the I , try to add what the the Senate to the the us we heard the Canadian the Canadian the chairman of the committee , the Canadian explanation , the context or the excuse for the amendment to us are before .
the intervention the this regard . was complete and specific , and I am talking the " that I am fully the agreement with the the the the the said .
i hope that the amendment will gain the approval of the Senate and finally , the government and the Canadian House of the House .
i take however , the opportunity to thank the chairman of the committee , we have led to a port and with great , the " this , the " the long - a review . careful the one of legislation . important to the us we spent a couple of hours .
i the deep the us to Alberta , a solution ; the the it is that the - be not been the right hurling of all those who have appeared before the committee or even the all the members of the committee , it is nevertheless a compromise hon. and practical the , I , I , will gain the approval of the Senate and the the government .
the task . the not been easy to the , and we all , the Canadian the committee , appr?cions his patience and the leadership .
i the said , I do add anything to the Greeks and the the context that he we , III the the area of the health .
i wish however , wish to other aspect of the bill to the .
this is the not a point of the the committee . is soul , but it is a the one thing , I turn . .
i would the attention only to you to the , reflect the night , I have the intent of the back to the reading of the third reading to the introduction . probably a subamendment .
honourable senators , the one clause of the bill to the , the the information . personal collected by the the business trade in the part of their activity can be releases 20 years after the Late the the people in the .
the my opinion , this provision is ind?fendable and , if I , I , I hear should be the Senate obsolete the the bill to the " the time , his third reading .
i have asked to various witnesses who have appeared before the committee , the the Minister of the commissioner to the protection of the life private , in passing by all kinds of advocates of the rights , the protection of the information personal - the horrendous the well - based on this provision , and no - one . the same the make .
the only explanation that they have been to the the motion that he is a clause north in the Act , the protection of the information personal , a clause , enjoyed the the information collected by the government , and his organizations .
he can simpler , because valid , in the political government , for successfully a moment clause in the the the policy , the information collected by the government - I , do and I wish to get more later , the but I do I imagine no finding justified the information , the somewhat at the the Senate , the the information personal the Canadian and cartes the credit , the one mortgage , the Canadian and accountability banking or the one issue of pharmacie , the are viewed by the the organizations trade , the the purpose trade .
the entire clearly , the bill to the issue . the Canadian of the board on a top , the government , security national and the Canadian , the
the us . " : " Ces information . the not be releases .
he is to a reason , the make .
the - be the commissioner to the protection of the life private the - the wishes to a number of the "
the that is very subjectif , particularly 20 years after the Late the the people in the .
a lawyer , the messages the us , Mr. Lawson , the I have heard yesterday , and the motion , as the most of the people who have appeared before us , a defender advocate of the bill to the , the said that , the the , the right to the protection of the life private not be the ports that the the people creations .
i am , the fact , this view and I am the opinion that we should the Lower .
i do I do arise the the speech that I will probably tomorrow afternoon , afternoon , but I wish you , to a pre - wise .
i wish to you sagacity that I would saisirai the this provision and I urge the chamber , I give a sufficient detail , the people of the .
if the I would inviterai the honourable join the I , change the bill to the " the reading of the third reading of the " remove this provision .
honourable senators , as I , I mentioned the Canadian second reading , in large , the motion of the Canadian law , commonly and deserves the benefit of the support of all the Canadian House and across the the country among those who are the the armed .
this is that he ?tendra the protection of the Act , the protection of the information personal the the great requirements of information personal that the business trade silent the individual the us in the part of their transactions .
the the exception of the provision the I have heard . " the time , the basis of that the the government . protection are strong and effective .
as the senator Kirby we , the said , the bill to the motion of negotiation of a consensus extraordinary which are upon the area private , the government , the the various groups of Defence of the protection of the life private and the groups of Defence of the liberties fundamental .
the government can the fair as a proud of the word enable the consensus .
the all those and all those who believe , and I think that the most of the us in the , the Canadian protection of the life private , the cordial the Canadian dignity and the the self human and that is the one right human , he is a the one reading major .
i believe that the permission the bill to the us will fundamentally improved the government . protection and the part legal the the rights human , the country .
all the Canadian . the person - be not to the armed the the the us are in the Canadian debate and the make today , the but I think that is the Canadian law amended will the one of the accomplissements historic the this Parliament or the the past Parliaments .
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I thank the senator Murray and the senator Kirby to the excellent work that they have the in the the concerns . C - the .
the senator Murray , is not normally member of the committee but , as it . the said , earlier in the intervention , the motion of the legislation . the the the motion . interested .
the the in principle that the Senate . provided in the Rules and the Senate . the Canada , our committee steering was enacted the four members .
the senator LeBreton , the senator Kirby and I - the we associated the senator Murray , our deliberations , because of the public deep that he is the this bill to the
as the senator Kirby and the senator Murray , I support the General of the Canadian law C - 6 .
i support the the amendment . no reserve .
it int?ressera the - be the senator Murray and the senator Kirby , the the " from just the " Imperial a letter from the the Association hygienist Canadian .
the association . like to carry this amendment .
it did the us seeing in a place leadership .
the representatives we have asked to the meeting of the committee , rendering the bill .
they have said that the Association hygienist Canadian the ever been in favour of the adoption of the bill to the C - 6 , requests the the amendments to assureraient a more , safeguards the the information personal that the provisions of the code CSA , in response to consent enlightened the the interested .
i am the agreement with them .
i souhaiterais I also strengthen this protection .
the impasse the reason , was found the committee was connected to the question of the consent .
if we had the Canadian side all the other aspects of the bill to the to the subject that the the exercise to the health community of a protection increased the Canadian life private , I do think that , honourable senators , the us have been the Canadian less clause of the bill to the prior to the be six months .
our amendment was to the Canadian speed the adoption and the application of the GST acts of the trade Ministerial the bunches of the part of the health .
the - time , we could take the time , reflect , but not necessarily to the Senate , but in the part of meetings with the area of the health , the area of the industry , the ministers of the health and the the Industry and their delegation parties .
all these parties interference have been put the the point of the changes to have the " is " the answer to the needs and goals of the industry . the care of health .
honourable senators , this issue . is illustrated the the centre of my concerns to the length of our study of the bill to the .
some evidence . the treaty that the the GST on the trade Ministerial .
they dance the industry . the technology , the ordinatique the somewhat the , the area of the Banking , the area of the faculty , and they were all supportive to the bill to the , not formulant that the the objections minor the the substance .
in the , they are dealt with enthusiasm .
they will have helpfulness the the achievement monumental that the summer the fact , the ralli? the consensus of all these groups , the subject of the code of the CSA .
the members of the committee . the not inspection the out that he not there was not consensus in the worlds medical .
the doctors and the range the vehemence that their own codifies were senior the the model of the CSA .
the pharmaciens , for their share , and those who silent the the information on the services of health wanted to reopen total .
the question of the I do I do contributing to the their party .
the people want use or sell my information personal , I should be my word " that the the information , and tomberont of the hands .
the most important , the us not have been discussed the two questions cruciales , the the definitions of the parameters the dark trade , and the consent enlightened the .
i have been vehemence of the the commissioner to the protection of the information personal firm that all the consentements are the the consentements chew .
despite the the respect to the respect to Bruce Phillips , I do I do the this notice .
if the " dragged in a room of emergency the I am listed the five doctors and 16 , the Canadian the staff , I say that I have the Canadian some interventions medical the emergency , I will sign not any event .
i hope that those who will be the the courts , my place signeront not any event to the I am the care required .
but it is the not a unanimous enlightened .
i do know that the effects high the the treatment pr?conis? and , the the TAGS , I do I , setting not terribly .
the question of the definitions not the not been clearly matter , in the the concerns of information personal the federal - health .
i support . , reservations the recommendation of the committee recommendation that we pr?voyions a matter to study of the the problems .
honourable senators , he is acculer the parties in the " the Right the the ripe .
the members of the committee . When the the evidence varying and the s?ment the confusion .
he is the the time to define the the rules clear divesting the information personal the federal - health , the in the the trade with all those who silent or used to information .
he not enough . the delay of two years , into the effect of the bill to the to achieve our objective .
the Canadian flag the Canadian and guidelines guidelines clear govern the use of their will medical and contain , and checking enlightened the this effect .
the Canadian . wish to the to the most , the their will medical the thoughtless the the point that he not be not serve the Canadian and research to the same a remedy to a medical or the one affection .
if this information is necessary to test of new drugs , he will find , a balanced .
a monopoly balance . there is in the bill to the .
we can only hope that this balance will found through the country reflection and the this amendment .
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I have a short question to question .
i , I caring the senator Carstairs , earlier today , the
i do I do consideration of the Canadian law , carefully that I would have the make and I do I do the knowledge of the evidence .
however , in listening to argumentations , I am asking if the " no should not have to politics public . grain the identity of the human the the information is expected to the content of this information .
the example , the Princess Wichmartin Hospital , the Toronto , enjoyed each year 60 per women demonstrate the the Breast the the public .
the side , the donor the the Breast the the public . the Mount Sinai Hospital receives 25 per women by the .
this is the the in the p?rim?tre the somewhat 92 metres , 85 per Canadians are soign?es each year , the Breast the the public .
the information to the subject is now recueillie and collig?e the Canadian and researchers and diagnosticiens and regroup?e the Canadian and some centraux .
the tremendous progress the summer progress , the first , the , in the treatment of the Breast the the public .
it , the , if the " means geography a single , the content of the information is indissociable the the progress progress by the area of the research .
if this information . was not recueillie , collig?e and tri?e , the fight against this terrible illness that is the Breast the the public . progresserait not .
the same reaching worth , for the progressive or any illness , we deeply .
i do I do enough including the the committee or the amendment has the Canadian this issue fundamental .
in fact , att?nue the the problem or coming to the task of the researchers the need to access to this information to the advancement of the research ?
the the place . improve the situation , not we , we not in the Canadian to vaine the research ?
the senator Carstairs :
honourable senators , you intend the - be involved in classical that we have heard the evidence of two groups of researchers the the opinions divergent the this issue .
a group is the opinion that he is established more of the Canadian Air to protect the life private the the people who fournissent the information .
the other group that the Canadian research , this nature . the absolute not be set the the provisions of the bill to the .
he believes that these measures to control provoqueraient the scenario assistance to the Honourable Senator from the record respect to the inability of taking the information cope necessary .
the Honourable Senator has explained our dilemma .
we have heard the the presentations very seriously . witnesses who we have said that is the Canadian law misconduct the collection of information of research as the the the armed the Honourable Senator .
the other . called the the not visiting not to the collection .
the this manner , we do porterons not harm to the research .
our researchers the fact , the good work , this regard in the past .
the bandwagon players that anyone . " no part of a bill to research should be the right to turn the Hon. the lost to argue bill .
he is therefore geography the the protocoles .
frankly , however , he we must the the time to the make .
the senator Grafstein :
honourable senators , if the bill to the giving the " a daily , why the registered ?
why we believe , we forced to study . C - the so some of the blind grow the serious doubts the Hon. the ?
the senator Carstairs :
the problem with the bill to the , Senator Grafstein , the motion that , the way general , one - and certainly one of the House of the House of the the motion made on the impact of the information , the Canadian health on the bill to the .
the senator Grafstein :
the Canadian the work b?cl? the the other place .
the senator Carstairs :
they have the one of b?cl? the the other place .
the said , the justice however , they not the people . the deliberate .
the stakeholders the the area of the health have them , the types of Department of the Industry .
they , the said : " This bill to the concerns of Trade Ministerial .
he not the not the effect on the . "
the result , the representatives of the health , would normally appeared before us to the beginning of the process . the people . the because the people felt that the bill to the not have not the effect on their .
this is the the in May or in June of this year , after the study of the bill to the " the other place , the the stakeholders the Canadian health . Maritimers enough worried to say : " This bill to the will the the effects on the .
fortunately that he is the one second House , a chamber . reflection , because we can now move the scenario our view of the . "
the the motion exactly what the people have the .
it , the , the bill to the issue . the " 90 per - trade Ministerial , and almost not the the area of the health .
the , in the interesting changes securing the protection of the information personal in the area of the trade , regarding the the the exchange and the premature the information on Internet .
these measures should get the effect , the possible .
i do I do delay , the process , because of this window that , I , will , we have met and the reason a particular , Quebecers winds to the us can continue to examine the question and , the - be , sanctions the the changes supportive the the the concerns of information , the Canadian health public .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
with argument
( the motion is agreed , and the report is passed to the majority . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law , such as amended , for the second time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Kirby , the third reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
the bill to the border judicial
bill to the Second - Report of the report of the committee
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Milne , seconded by the Honourable Senator Chalifoux , seconded the the adoption of the second report of the Committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional ( Bill , the C - 7 , the Act , the Act , lots judicial and a place . in determining , with the the amendments ) , the " the Senate . 30 November 99 .
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , I attempt to be brief .
i do I do the intent of Cobb the exploration of the components of the bill to the .
i rise to speak today , for support the adoption of the second report of the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the the bill to the C - 7 .
he is clear , honourable senators , the when he is a the mother sexual to the the children or the the people vulnerable , he is that handcuff .
a sexual exploitation , is a the press .
the consequences are serious and we must be . the the motion in our power as parliamentarians to avoid that the kind events . the proposal .
i wish shown today , the need to the Parliament , the feasibility the bill to the C - 7 , in my piece of a case of sexual exploitation injury the early this year , three children in a barrier the the Quebec .
i do nommerai not the city , because the the unfounded convergence are pendantes .
i attempt as the make the person of the not too identify the circumstances nominatives the this issue officers , but I wish trying when the Canadian you , to the in products the rules parliamentarians .
in 1985 , a man , in the Canadian a city Quebec creates a barrier .
he is a the the unique retreat the this lifeblood origins to bring the Montreal .
the 22 November the , he is neither and Freedoms the mother sexual the three fillettes the four years , he had been confi?es .
given the freedom of the Order , he is neither of new the next , the editor the the site of the battle and the have heard the Canadian and ?ducatrices the Canadian retreat , and therefore , the contrevenu the the conditions of the implementation of freedom .
this is the questionable the Canadian protection of the noviciate the the alert? the police municipale , the positive a regulatory the parents , opened the services of the battle .
this , the single the gun the the poudres the the Quebec , the motion that the the ground recently that is the individual , in 1992 , the summer found guilty and the positive a condemnation with fined to the the actions similar .
the the time , one , in the city the the one created the battle , the the services of police , not had been developed the the armed the the background criminals the the requ?rant .
the Opposition the police the Canadian lifeblood the question the the very the battle not the way to the the background criminals the the individual that the 26 October the , therefore , day before the the actions of Murder not be brought the the individual , the .
honourable senators , these events . apartheid many remous in the corporation and the media Quebec , the years of the two or three years weeks .
the Minister Quebec delegated the Canadian Canal , Dr. ger , the have to the the unfounded the laxisme the were Thomson , the Department of the the the policy , the process of auditing the the background criminals the the amounts of Women in the Canadian Embassy the one of the operation to the kind of activity .
the Republic that the parents , envoient their children in the garderies celebration not lose trust in the system of licensing of the fishing the operation of a barrier , the Minister of the S?curit? public , Mr. M?nard , the announcement , the 25 November the , a plan of action to correct this situation .
this last the one more , cooperative of the Department of the Canal and the S?ret? the the Quebec to the the background court of all the release of the Canadian garderies that accommodation for so that the the case , the the I would have relat? the facts , earlier , the proposal .
the same day , the Minister delegated the Canadian Canal the well announced the the government account for the " and concerns raised by a member Liberal the the Assembly national , Mr. Copeman .
this last the requested to the government , the 25 November the , the Canadian the period of the issues . the Assembly national , if the government . checks the the background court . ?tendaient the the 12 per 1000 Quebec , the system of the garderies .
the Canadian Minister ger , a new provision of control should be implemented in the Canadian , the beginning of the year next , therefore , I have the to whether the ant?c?dent court of the 12 per 1000 the garderies the the Quebec .
a part of this responsibility donate the the directors of the Canadian and the disclaimer and the the members of the advice of the Canadian and operated the Canadian small worker , which will the same all contr?l?s by the Department of the S?curit? public .
this broader operation of auditing morosity the the years of the next day and the prospect , in the months , in the Canadian the intensive .
i am sure , honourable senators , the most of the honourable the right follow the Senate . the House of the bill to the C - 7 I see the .
the Assembly national , in the effervescence , the forgotten , if the not had been a the candidate the circumstances , the not . certainly not be , the this issue pace of the federal - the Parliament , the
when the the concern to the the the motion of the Canadian this event , the Quebec , the not be the be happy to the 13.5 the the Parliament , the committee on the government contained in the bill to the C - 7 .
i do I do the intent of the length , but I want you relater this history morbide the the years now , the Quebec .
as we , Father the senator Andreychuk yesterday , the bill to the C - 7 . is certainly not a panacea .
he not denying not . .
he not be not believe that because the us challenging the place . the , we reach all protected multilateral when we placerons our children , adequate .
the the contrary , we autorisons the implementation of the Canadian a mechanism additionnel the protection of the children and the the people vulnerable .
i hope that this bill be afforded the blood support the the reading of the third reading and that it doesn the make the the Canada . society , the " is still able to live in security .
honourable senators , I wish to some words , the subject of the bill to the C - 7 , the Act , the Act , lots judicial .
the chairman of the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional , the Honourable Lorna Milne , the treaty yesterday , the report of our committee .
i support this report .
the bill to the C - 7 the substance the the process of offenders and the " facilitate the r?insertion social the the Cold the people showed , when they were incarc?r?s , and will the full of the citizens respectueux the the legislation .
this bill to the front the the beginning some shortcomings the people were corrig?es through the the amendments lips by the committee .
the , the listed multilateral in the bill to include the the word " Child , and the the " to the vulnerable to the
the not be not share in the regulations the the definitions , substantial .
the powers regulatory are now meet in the bill ; the system of marquage the the casiers court . limited to the individuals who have been burdened to the the heat the character body .
the this regard , a list of the heat involved . was added in Printed the the bill to the .
i must say , in closing the when the committee , the business legal and Constitutional at a matter of the border judicial , as the motion of the in the present making or the one of the the ADN , we redoublons , the efforts to the us to the Canadian Charter Canadian of the rights and Freedoms is respected .
we know , the the GST 7 and supported the country Charter constitutional guarding the life private .
this is a value fundamental in our system .
i think that the " may say that the bill to the C - 7 , the motion to the study , respect to the best of our understanding of constitutional , there was the Charter constitutional the amending .
the Honourable Joan Fraser :
honourable senators , I wish to some words on the question raised last , the senator Andreychuk because the it is very important .
it is concerned , and with the , the Canadian of the us portions rights , the integrity of the system of shirts if we start to the gruger slowly .
i believe that the members of the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional are all the fact prepared to recognize that , first , we want maintain the integrity of the system and , second , the bill to the not the not interfere the this integrity and the exception that he says , the government . the number total of pardons guaranteed , is the mineure and if valid that we do we not we in Korea addition to the
honourable senators , the motion statistiquement a small exception , and I have thought that you reach involved in the the statistics .
the the years of the 28 years in the close to a quarter of harmonizing the pardons the summer guaranteed , all offences confondues .
only 4 500 the the pardons the summer guaranteed the Canadian and chronic the heat the character body .
we talking here , a very small portion of the total .
he is very clear that the bill to the , such as amended , not to the the heat the character body .
he will the authority to the Parliament for the other duties the the integrity of the system of the pardons , and I believe that the Parliament r?fl?chira serious before the body , the system .
the Hon. the Speaker :
if no other honourable senator . I take the honourable , I proceed to the Hon. the motion of the Canadian the report .
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is passed . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when the bill to the will be read a third time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Fraser , the third reading of the bill to the , such as amended , is placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
prepared Canadian of the Church morave the North
bill to the private to the Constitution the bill to incorporation - Second Reading
the Honourable Nicholas W . Taylor , the the Bill C S - 14 , the Act , the Tobacco the human moral the Council of the former the Canadian prepared Canadian of the Church morave the North , the third time second time . - (
the Honourable Senator Taylor ) .
this bill to the the reading of reading of the second reading three times the the years of the six years in the
this time , this , no . the difference .
the Church morave the North the motion Anzac here , the turning the the century , just the Canadian Airborne the the Senate .
the Senate . interest in the bill to the years 1986 , in the the Church the motion to the first time expressed to the to do amend the name for the the Senate . the in French and the English and the make changes to human moral .
these people . put not to present , for the country leave , but it was a the the GST initial the the Church the the turning the the century .
i pray that the honourable senators , to date . C - the .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed and the bill to the motion read a second time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . third time ?
the senator Taylor :
honourable senators , with your leave , the Canadian next sitting of the Senate .
the Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Taylor , the bills of the are normally claimants the one of the
this is the practice usual .
the senator Taylor :
i the news , honourable senators , but it is the not a bill to the normal .
this is the third time that he has the us .
however , it , the I move that the bill to the Senate referred to the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional .
the Hon. the Speaker :
he is proposed by the Honourable Senator Taylor and seconded by the Honourable Senator Poy that the bill to the Senate referred to the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional .
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , the least , some of the Canadian and observations special to do the the subject of the bill to the and the government . the fact that he has been the Aboriginal the the committee , as the Honourable Senator Taylor , the fair to the " , the House of course , the Canadian decide the rock this part of the process and the move the Canadian third reading .
i am asking the the not there has not a way of that the Canadian the , the least , he is that a vital the controversy the credit to be reconsidered the the reading of the committee .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I am well that along the Canadian section of the Senate .
i wanted simply wish to the Senate that the court if the all the bills of the Senate failed to the the committee .
the senator Corbin :
i will then move a motion in the meaning .
the Hon. the Speaker :
i am sorry , I have a motion to the study .
the senator Corbin :
in the case , honourable senators , I move a subamendment , the motion .
i move that the bill to the not be not out , as the motion of court , audit Committee , but that the Senate consente the the comments a third time to the next sitting .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion of amendment ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion of amendment is agreed . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion , seconded ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion amended is agreed and the third reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
energy , Environment and gas natural
leave to the committee , to the the staff and the the place
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Spivak , seconded by the Honourable Senator Cochrane :
that the Committee on the Canadian the energy , the the Environment and the the resources natural the technical , clerical and services of counsel , clerical , clerical the board or other elements necessary to examine the bills of the , the substance of the bills of the and the Estimates budget , he have been providing ; and
that the Committee be authorized to the place to adjourn the Canada and the the foreign to the purpose of such reviews . - (
the Honourable Senator Hays ) .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I have had the opportunity to discuss the this motion with the author , the senator Spivak .
i suggested that we traitions the this issue now .
if the Senate . hear , we could amend the motion of the subject to the way of a subamendment .
i suggested that the senator Spivak duty the motion in paragraph the words , and the the foreign to the Canadian last famous the so that the motion . French as follows : " That the committee be authorized to the place to adjourn the Canada , the purpose of such reviews the , and the not as it is before now , the knowledge , Iceland the committee be authorized to the place to adjourn the Canada and the the foreign to the purpose of such reviews the .
i urge the senator Spivak , we do the Canadian and want to the subject .
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , I do believe that the acceptance of the conditions , but I can be the be substantial the senator Spivak , he elimination that I do know no other Committee to the one such as the
he is in my intention , in the the Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate , the feasibility of the Government in the respect to the committee , the energy , the the resources natural and the the Environment .
the course , Senator Spivak , the committee can come to this chamber to the information the leave of the the instructions to travel out of the Canada .
i hope that this clientele the senator for this issue .
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud :
honourable senators , the amendment proposed by the Honourable Senator Hays the the the committee to be authorized to the place to adjourn the Canada , the
the year , the the committee , the fishery and the the Oceans did the place to the purpose of a study and the the the most of the recommendation of the not the make a the through the one of the committee for the that monitors the the committee , permit the the Estimates .
in the case , the committee receives - the the authority and the fund to the underlying , for the place over the the Canada . in the one of the the committee , the Economy Economy ?
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , I will deal . as a question , I , wherein the Canadian the debate on the subject .
the answer to the question of the senator Robichaud the the fact that the the resources are automatically allou?es the one of the Canadian and trips the the Canada is the only , the not . not the case , the
in the the former - chairman of the committee , the energy and human responsible for the Anglican the the mandate enough quite the I miss now , as the so that the Deputy of the government , the mandate quite the summer asked because the the committee has used to participate in the the unspeakable and the Canadian and events who have the in the other parts of the Canada .
the example , the senator Spivak I was indicated that the committee attempted send a or the the Ontario ( s ) the Canadian Conference GLOBE 2000 .
the committee has always sent a representative the this conference and the last , a report , the committee .
i think that this is qualified very useful for the Senate . the committee .
however , for the the resources necessary to the message a member of the committee , he is to the the Committee on the Canadian Economy Economy , the the Economy , the the board and to approve the budget .
generally , the committee , the .
this is the only answer to the necessity , the Canadian forces to the senator Robichaud .
i urge the senator Spivak , we potentially if it is interested in amending the motion of the the motion be the , to the the changes .
the senator Spivak :
honourable senators , I am interested in the Constitution .
the answer to the senator Robichaud , all the credits are pr?cis?s and will 90 the TAGS the the view of the Senate , we expect in the year , in the
the Hon. the Speaker :
senator Spivak , I - I , d?duire that you souhaitez that the retir?s the blood motion of appreciation to the " the foreign to the
the senator Spivak :
the just the words , and the the foreign to the
is that the I wish remove .
the senator Hays :
only the words , and the the foreign to the
the senator Spivak :
this is exactly .
the Hon. the Speaker :
we , we , suspend unanimous to remove these words ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , back to the motion key such as amended .
we , we , to the the Hon. the
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the the Hon. the
one another
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable - the " and Senator the feasibility of Motion amended ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion amended is agreed . )
the Canadian the political Canadian antidrogues
motion During the formation of a committee on Special - Adjourned the the debate
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin , pursuant to the opinion of the 2,500 November 99 , moved :
that a committee Special the the Senate , set to the reassess the legislation and the political Canadian antidrogues , the remaining substantially the people of the basis of need offered the the various regions of the country , the particular , the the problems social benefits to the traffic and the the use of compliance uniform are the implications , the developing the the proposals for release any information on the Canadian political Canadian antidrogues and , finally , the devastating the the recommendations for the provinces , the adoption of a strategy antidrogues the " the point by the to the Canadian encouraging all the levels of the " work in close collaboration the Canadian reduction of the mischief linked to the consumer the Controlled uniform .
the the the the following the to the Canadian carriers the mandate , the the committee be authorized to :
the review the approach adopted by the government , for combat the consumer the Controlled uniform the the Canada , the effectiveness as a the deficit the effects of the consumer the stup?fiants and the extent in the Hon. the motion just ;
the developing a political national the reduction of the mischief to the harshness the impacts negative the Canadian products of compliance uniform the the Canada and to the the recommendations on the way of the this policy , including the possibility of Chartered before the the use and the abuse of compliance as a problem socio - sanitaire ;
the study of centrefolds the reduction of the mischief adopted by the other countries and determine , the the , would be , the the ports partially or assessments , the the Canada ;
the review the role and the obligations international the original the the Canada . " the the conventions the the United Nations the the stup?fiants , the Canadian Declaration Universal the the rights of the man and the other treaty related to the basis , these include the SLBA the other . the government , the the court convergence and the p?nalisation the the response to the international de ;
the CCN the effects of the fibre the Canadian health and to the question of the so , employment of political alternatives to the subject of the use of the fibre conduirait the one increase the the use and the the abuse the short and the long term ;
the study of the the the government logjam the the power to Regulations that the authority to the Act , contraventions as a supplementary the ports , political the reduction of the mischief as it is the use in the other juridictions ;
the study , the question concerned , the political Canadian antidrogues that the committee feels appropriate for work the mandate .
that the committee Special the museum the five senators , the the quorum the Canadian three members ;
that the committee that the power to do appear the the people and the devastating the the documents , the suggested the the witnesses , the make the Canadian time to other and the make papers the the Order of the documents , quiet and evidence that the instructions of the committee ;
that the briefs received and the evidence heard in the the examination of the bill to the C - 8 , the fact , the regulatory the matters drugs and the people stroke , the Canadian and chemicals , by the Committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional during the second session of the Thirty - fifth Parliament , that study the the committee ;
that the committee be authorized to Authorize , the the the Krever appropriate , the broadcasting , the broadcasting and the premature by the inclusion of the media coverage of the ground or the one of the the deliberations and the the information that he holds ;
that the committee be authorized to sit during the sittings of the Senate . " the the rule 95 ( 2 ) the the Rules and the Senate ; and
that the committee , the report final the the most later three years after the date of the creation .
today , the I can you firm that I am more determined that have the kind of the prior with the bill .
i the I ample the last of my speech , the 14 June the .
honourable senators , the the years of the Thirty years in the the U the our governments successive in the matter and the developing the Canadian War , the drug , riel been the beginning of the years 1980 the cost . Six the Canadian society Canadian .
the cost associated the the control and the Canadian repression the the Controlled ill?gales are the common the with the level of consumer or with his effects on the corporation or the individuals .
you join , distributed , honourable senators , the the motion of the the credit a review of the most rigorous .
this is why , the 2,500 November the , I have brought to get the this chamber . motion requesting that a committee Special the the Senate , set to the reassess the legislation and the political Canadian antidrogues .
the objective of this year will , first , the giving the the Canadian a line exactly and tough respecting the the Controlled ill?gales ; second , the assessment the standard of morality the Canadian society Canadian , the respect to the use of the Controlled ill?gales and , finally , the giving the the government ' s information be to the the so expand and implanter a legislation and the the political adequate the qualities the values and the political the the people Canadian , the the the policy , the Controlled now identifi?es as the ill?gales .
honourable senators , you have osteoporosis , the question , a change the attitude the the Canadian , the the the policy , the political the control of the Controlled and the people results .
the Canadian and the health start to the matter of the the amounts of money important net in the thickets of the consumer and the the traffic the the stup?fiants not contribute not the results Province .
we have also need to know the experience cooperation in the area in the other countries .
we are we , urged the solutions the alternative fortitude by the other countries , the the solutions the prevalence and the TSB a better r?insertion social the one 65 important to the corporation .
during the the summer the , I have had the opportunity to achieve the country and the meeting of Canadians who relationship agr?ablement surprised by my intention of you to the jobs a committee Special the the Senate to reassess the political Canadian antidrogues .
they feel the all the worlds .
i have met the the policiers , the the stakeholders the Canadian and inept the Controlled , the the doctors , the the Fathers and the the Non the family , the the lawyers , the the honourable , the the faculty of university , the the students , the the press .
i have also involved in many shows the lines linking the the years of the summer .
many of stakeholders were the agreement for the the Canadian political the the government in the Canadian Air the Controlled not operating not and that , finally , this policy of repression top extremely sir and causait . the Canadian wrong that the well .
many of the and the institutions I have either their expertise , their oil and their involvement the the Senate . the future Committee .
the the years des15 years in the Minister Puder the motion fought against the ravages engendr?s by the war against the drug the Canadian public . the inner poor the this city .
he has spent the rest of the life , recognizing the the machinery of passing and the turn the Canadian and youth of the community , for their wonderful the consequences CMHC the the use of sites uniform .
he has also made to the Canadian many campaigns to ask the the government , the feasibility a political antidrogues the U . problem , the one issue of health public should be knowing .
i wish to convey , by the present speech , my deepest sympathy to the members of the family .
i wish to the honour to the courage and the Canadian determination dontM. Puder the fact , the the years of the past years , the " the whole of the work .
i will note that the message of sympathy the the senator Chalifoux , the place . was noticed and enjoyed .
the months , the I have been the two million similar to the lowest of Ottawa and the Universit .
despite a schedule responsible , the many students . the fishermen to participate in the discussions .
in response to the announcement of my bill , several reforming and productivity of the media of all the the Canada . reacts positively .
these games the summer surprised that a moment this provienne the the Senate .
i say that they have hearts the tabling of my motion , a bouff?e the air costs in the loss policy Canadian .
the the CHST , in the road the the 21 June the , the Globe and Mail Compensating that the Senate was absolutely to the agreement to the bill to demonstrate a time to all the our political current the federal - and Substances not working , the and I quote :
some questions of political public are so ?pineuses that the politicians are predominantly . the Republic of the subject .
the philosophy legal the the use of medical the the Controlled is a the the issues -
a report serious the the Senate might scenario the cost direct high the Canadian political at the the compare with the Canadian solutions the alternative practicable .
if the report psychologists a vast support the Canadian the public , he could satisfy the politicians timides that the the reforms are viewed .
this is the political , but the reason , the the borders the House of knowing that there has three years , bill to the joint the Canadian . the the Commons and the Senate .
the honourable accompliraient a service public . the the chargeaient them , the Canadian this study .
honourable senators , the 26 November the , the Canadian the caucus of the odd the the 21 , great cities of the Canada , the members of the Federation Canadian of the municipalities , I have the my bill .
this evening , the MASH the Canadian bracket municipalities Canadian , the report , he is the two years , a resolution which welcomed the political prohibitionniste the the government , in the Canadian Air the the Controlled uniform .
this resolution enjoignait the authorities federal , not . amend the provisions of the present Act Controlled some drugs and other sites .
however , the 21 April the , the Association Canadian of the leaders of police . recommended the the government , the d?criminaliser and the Canadian l?galiser the possession of small amount of stup?fiants , including the h?ro?ne .
this , was the most encouraging in the decision of Government of the Association Canadian of the leaders of police , the motion that it recommended the Canadian public Canadian and the the government , the feasibility a approach to traiterait all the issues relating to the consumer abusive the stup?fiants as a problem of health public .
i wish to you wish to this position . was seconded by the preserve Royal the the Canada .
since this decision of Government , the Federation Canadian of the municipalities is the gap the constant his own position on this issue .
it attempts the developing a new strategy in the area , deficits the Canadian reduction of the mischief to the users of compliance .
the country , the the name of the members , the fact , a letter to the Minister of the Justice asking that the government creates a forum where this issue would matter .
this is that the I would suggest today , with the creation of a committee Special the the Controlled ill?gales .
the municipalities have a role is the role in the reform of our political antidrogues .
they are the level of the the most humane the the citizen .
they roles a position privileged to determine what are the major problems and consequences Social engendr?s by our political r?pressives antidrogues .
the odd are doing the this responsibility and they have asked the the people could be to amend the situation .
as we all , they are the Canadian research , upon alternatives to the problems social .
as we , they are the people to the conclusion that the political the thickets used to the control of the Controlled ill?gales are inefficient and diseases . Six the the citizens .
the same , the members of the caucus of the odd the the great cities Canadian . helpfulness the members of the Senate . the well welcomed the proposal that I have introduced in June the .
the most , the caucus has passed to the unanimous and the Hon. entirety the motion of the committee , the
the this effect , here is that the mayor of Edmonton , Bill Smith , wrote in his letter of the 29 November 99 :
i support certainly the motion that you have introduced to the Senate .
the my opinion , it has certainly ?tayer the need to a Senate and the good work that gets this institution .
as I , I said , the meeting , it . honourably , the suggested the the people to the Canada criticize the Senate .
i know personally the many senators , I know , what the people working very to the Canada .
i wish to point that many of the odd that I have met souhaitaient to their contribution to the Senate . the committee .
back now , the practice of the Senate . the committee .
the basis of the mandate described in the motion , the study the I would suggest today , will divided the 12 themes .
the honourable senators , both to the the Senate . the transition but , the Canadian and for the effectiveness , I attempts the limit the five the honourable the will attitr?s the the Senate . the committee .
each of the five senators , will the Canadian the committee will the CCN to take the labour the Senate . R the two or three des12 themes .
i wish to you , avertir , the task of lead the research and the s?lectionner the the witnesses . will not Statements only to the steering the Canadian research and the the coordinator of the committee .
he is a the one of refugees .
each of the honourable the will the theme these issues will be the " and other members of the committee , the advancement of the research .
some of the honourable will be the be the the the the is the one approach too tough .
the said , I contend that I believe firmly that the permission this way of work , we can accomplish our office of a way objective and serious .
we want to a line transparent , objective and investigated by the members of the committee .
if we want eat the debate on a level , serious and the frigate the Canadian and the government , we do we not the other choice that the feasibility the kind of reflections .
honourable senators , I do I do the intent today , the deal of detail each of the 12 themes the will mean in this study .
i will speak only to those who are really important to my eyes to the the committee can look these issues .
you have all , I , I am , the knowledge of the document that I would I detailed the June the .
when they will informed , the committee will the Process the part of our work for trying to discover what is their living of morality the federal - compliance .
why I - I used the word " notions the , honourable senators ?
you get understand the authorization the tab the the history of the Prohibition the the Canada and the the world .
you get understand that the issues of health public . the ever been taken in the when just the time , some and the prohiber , and said , the first Prohibition , the the summer the Canadian the opium .
he not the ever or nearly was the Canadian health public , but it has ample was the Canadian notions public , the racism , the trade internationally , the the importance that the " to the the companies , products generic .
all the issues of Trade and the notions the engendr? the Prohibition that the fastest today , the
the Canadian long that all the hemisphere the the treaty . led tranquillement the people of our country , because of Parliament , the right faith , not to the ever retourn?s to see the the just the Prohibition .
the the area . the our ancestors we had said , the the fonc? and the the continued to prohiber and the sign the the treaty to prohiber , the .
today , the " the listed in the situation that the doctor Riley you , armed in the report that I have brought in June the .
i could you , I was much , but I do I do the intent of the more of your time .
you have before you , parameters iterations the the mandate that I would ask for the committee , a mandate of a period of three years .
as I , I said , the the time , each member would the responsibility of some facet of the mandate overall , and the motion of the very valuable .
why ?
he is already . the research scientific in the area .
this is the - be the subject to the summer the most meetings in the second half of the century century .
he is a the clean the kind of research and the the focus with hold on the research scientific tradition .
each member of the committee would the responsibility of a the the broad the the examination .
the that the easily the ?chelonner the close to both years .
after this , he is a the drafting a report interim , the frigate the Canadian of the the us will found , the demand then , among the in place to the reading of the report .
he is a the years of highway a election federal .
i trust think that we reach the same the Republic of ?cueils that can we to a election federal , particularly when he is the Canadian a subject . Mitchell .
i prefer . the most of time to do the work and the Republic of the matrimonial the devastating a report , will looked the p?ture the Canadian and politicians who is rechercheront that the the issues for which the passions the the Canadian be a ?veill?es , the " and the entire the information be .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Kenny , the debate is adjourned . )
fisheries
leave to the committee , to the the issues relating to the mandate
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau , pursuant to the moved 2 December 1998 , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian and Oceans be authorized to study , to the present a report on the the issues relating to the industry . the fishery ;
that the Committee examine the " the most later , 12 December 2000 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practical consequently , the table the report of the the Greffier the the Senate , the Senate . " no , and that obedience report be deposited have been tabled the the Senate .
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I wish to a comment on the development of the Order of Reference the the respect to a great the as the Canadian and Oceans , the motion vital and that I support fully .
the week , the us in the perpetrators a the the Agriculture and a place on the forestry .
the senator Nolin , the one of the Controlled uniform .
the senator Kirby , the one of the services of health .
some of the students in the dureront the - be a year or two .
in the case of the Canadian the senator Nolin , it probably three years .
the Canadian approver these studies special , we should get a lawyer , the cost of the , the so , the , the question , the the budget of our committees , I do believe that the Canadian the fact changed . years in the motion . the original .
he is a probably the the position budget , the fundraiser and always the - funded .
i do I do to a horse the the study proposed by the honourable Comeau and Robichaud .
the the us not seeing too far , I believe that the us should be a lawyer General of the the the students anything to the Senate and the the amount that we are prepared to engage the the years of the two and three years in the
we constaterons the - be the us not able to complete some of these studies , resulting the fund or the pr?voyance .
the senator Comeau :
the problem that he is the " to a budget , the information a mandate , the motion that the mandate , the not be to a budget .
the first , he is to the mandate and then , we can we recognize the country Committee and inept the budget .
if the committee Standing the Canadian Economy Economy , the the Economy , the the board does the us should go to the prior with the study , the entire the matter to the time , that , but we do we all just not taking a budget . the " the pre a mandate .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I have a question to question to the senator Comeau .
i think that I know the answer , but let - I , the course .
i believe that this motion is introduced with the approval of the members of the committee , and I guess the the motion of approval unanimous , but I appr?cierais a comment to the subject .
i understand the point of the bedrock by the senator Lynch - Staunton , the one of the senator Comeau .
in the the chairman of a committee , he is difficult to the the the existence in the in the case , that the
what the the in the , I know that the committee has made to the excellent work , the years of the last Parliament , the following the one referred to the kind .
the committee has the fact , a reference to the budget of the Estimates for shelter the study , and we in clearer . " a time , in this chamber .
i wish to the " ready . the the in the Canadian the decision of the committee , go to the Canadian this motion .
the senator Comeau :
honourable senators , the motion of about the Leader Deputy , the same to the the Estimates , the Estimates , is the third motion that I will be .
i will viendrai in a moment .
my third motion proposes that , the the case where the Estimates , the Estimates would referred to the committee , we doubled the way of correspondence the report on the Estimates budget .
however , for the moment , if the Estimates budget . the not renvoy?es the country Committee , the course , we do the renverrons not to the Clerk , the Senate . " no .
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud :
honourable senators , if I can add , comments and the - be else the Honourable Senator Lynch - Staunton , when we have considered this motion , he is a the fact , the one of the broad to us to the study , the issues relating to the fishery .
he was the " the course , if we we travel , a budget would prepared and the " the committee , the Economy Economy , the the Economy , the the board to the us can meet the ball that each Committee has collected the control of spending .
the year , the the committee , the fishery and the the Oceans has opposed has a travelling on the West Coast because the " no could not find the fund to the effect that trip . It
is the right to the not . not a question of budget and the the tour a little over the the Canada .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
this is the not my intention of allowing confused a question around the Canadian motion of the senator Comeau .
i wanted to the " the so that possible . intending the the fact that our budgets are very limited .
as laudable that the the students Changes , particularly those who is prolongent the one time , both or three years , he would be the the Senate , before the the cost immediately to the not have the weather surprises .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , no other senator . I take the honourable .
you pleasure , he and the Canadian motion , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
leave to the committee , to the premature the the deliberations , the the average electronic
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau , pursuant to the opinion du2 December 1998 , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian and Oceans be authorized to allow the heading the the deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible . the .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , you pleasure , he and the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
leave to the committee , to the the staff
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau , pursuant to the opinion that he has given the 2,500 December 1998 , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian and Oceans be authorized to withhold the services of counsel , clerical , clerical the board or other elements necessary to examine the bills of the , the substance of the Canadian law and the Estimates budget , he have been providing .
( the motion is agreed . )
transport and Communications
leave to the committee , according to Permit by the media of information electronic
the Honourable Lise Bacon , pursuant to the opinion of the 6 December 1998 , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian and Communications and the the communication the power to allow the premature the the deliberations public by the media of information electronic , the manner in bother the least possible . the .
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , the most of the , all the committee took the the Senate . leave of radiodiffuser and the t?l?diffuser their meetings public .
the in the past , the point where the " should give a licensing general , all the committee , wish make the Canadian the .
the lives when the " a time when the the world . branch? , the the world to look and instructive .
this requirement is absolutely redundant .
the committee , the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules should be dealt the the pre and the should biffer the the Rules this requirement .
the complete the committee deal of their administered in the area .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , there has the Canadian and senators , prior to the honourable ?
the the Hon. the
the .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , you pleasure , he and the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
leave to the committee , clerical the the services
the Honourable Lise Bacon , pursuant to the opinion of the 6 December 1998 , moved :
that the Committee on the Canadian and Communications and the the communication the technical , clerical and services of counsel , clerical , clerical the board or other elements necessary to examine the bills of the , the substance of the Canadian law and the Estimates budget , he have been providing .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , you pleasure , he and the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate . adjourned . the 1998 8 December 1998 , the 13 at 1:30 . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 18
the 1998 8 December 1998
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the dumping
Maxwell Tabled '
the maturation concern vitro
the Ontario
the bill to the restructuring regional - Government proposal of contempt Ottawa record bilingual
business routine
library of the Parliament
introduction of the Prime report of the committee Joint
agriculture and Forestry
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
Naples - Newfoundland
the reform of the system school - Government amendment to the inclusion 17 , the Constitution , p the the Prime report of the committee Joint Special
official languages
introduction of the Prime report of the committee Joint Committee
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Transportation
the Pearson the Trans - Conformity the Canadian and negotiations Honourable the the transfer to the board a?roportuaire local
the Pearson the Trans - Conformity inaptitude the the system of pistes the developing some armoured
the business Intergovernmental
the Ontario , The restructuring regional municipale - Conformity refusal of the province of contempt of capital national bilingual
the Transportation
the acquisition of the air strikes Canadian Airlines by Air Canada - Government regulatory the one might monopoly in the industry . the transportation of the pressing air - Government Policy the the government
air Canada - Conformity increase the the rates air
business Social , Science and Technology
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic - Conformity Opposition the Canadian the Canadian the government . the Alberta
the Transportation
air Canada - Government increase the the rates
the Heritage
the status of the museum commemorative the the Holocaust
on business orders
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the the documents electronic
third reading of Motion to vote , Adjourned the the debate
the Act , the border judicial
bill to the Second - Third Reading
the Estimates , the Estimates , 1999 - 2000
the Canadian the report of the committee , the Finance Finance the the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A )
bill to the chronic the decision of some decisions medical
second reading of Debate the the debate
prepared Canadian of the Church morave the am?rique
bill to the private to the Constitution the Act , incorporation - Third Reading
the Senate . the Senate
use the the Rules , Points of the Chair
the Senate
the 1998 8 December 1998
the Chair . Chair . In at 1:30 , the Speaker , the the Chair .
prayers .
the maturation concern vitro
the Honourable Lucie pin :
honourable senators , he is the three weeks , the the researchers the the University McGill the said that helped with great many couples the applicant the the babies , even the the twin , through the one another method r?volutionnaire .
the method the allocation the changing the the ovules immatures the one direction . embryons the Order of maturation concern vitro .
the MIV result of the method of f?condation concern vitro the the r?volutionn? the treatment of the stress in the years 70 .
the maturation concern vitro somewhat of the f?condit? concern vitro the the fact that , in the MIV , the ovule is run the Quiet then f?cond? the the foreign the the ut?rus the Canadian mother , then , the in the FIV , the ovule have mature is f?cond? the laboratory .
the MIV the summer the " the point in Korea - the South and the Australia the the beginning of the years 90 the the intent of the women the the ovules not become a required course , mature .
the " recently , the rate of success of the MIV was weak , but the doctor Seang v. Tan , Director of the 251 the obst?trique and the gyn?cologie the the University McGill , the difference of things .
in r?ussissant the governing the ovules the Quiet the the foreign the the board , he has opened the door to the new practices of f?condation concern vitro allowing a rate of success higher the the low 20 per present .
this technical , reforming the the women who have tried to success of becoming repatriated by the other means .
in addition , it costs of half of the the clean the FIV .
what wonderful new to the couples the will the benefit !
but that the motion ? the to our society ?
with the variety of new reproductive the fetus , the answer , the motion that we are in the uncertainty .
we are very pleased to the couples the , through the this Technology , will capable of the Canadian and children .
but the things . the not also stated .
the should benefit of this Technology ?
the the access to the treatment ?
that the - that the prior to the user the the treatment ?
what are the impact incidental the the treatment on the plan moral the short , through the long term ?
the issues are so complex and the applications force of several of these technologies . the CTAISB .
this is a field the the not there has or darkness or white , but that the the gris .
in 1993 , the board Royal the the new reproductive the fetus the report his report making , and other , the jobs . " national the the technical , reproductive .
this inquiry was supposed to many things .
first , it would Exclusive the the fishing the the institutions , and would set the standards and fulfil the practical provisions the the use of the technical , reproductive existing .
second , it would commend , conventions and looked to the public the information on the People .
third , he was provided that it monitors the entrepreneurial the technical and the practical new and that it comes to the political .
finally , it was helping the cooperation governmental in the area .
unfortunately , the government , not the not the following the this recommendation .
each time that I hear about the Canadian and the the point of a new technical , the Canada , I regret the absence of a commission national .
we do we not the board national responsible for the the issues that taken the technical or the in regulate the use .
i urge the government , the bidding the recommendations of the commission Royal the 1993 and the other soon . an the government , the CWB to create a commission national the the technical , reproductive .
the Ontario
the bill to the restructuring regional - Government proposal of contempt Ottawa record bilingual
the Honourable Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , the by the right and the Constitution of the Canada , the government . the Ontario is teacher of all the municipalities the Canadian province , and the government of the absolute determined to the make the evidence .
unfortunately , the same government . the ever hesitate , not be the the the one second , the restrictions his political , the citizens of the province .
i wish to point that the government 500,000 not the ever forced to enjoy the the the size the feasibility the exposure to putting bilingual the .
Ottawa . however , municipality as nowhere else .
this is the capital national the the country bilingual the motion of ours .
honourable senators , I urge the government 500,000 the " the recommendation Mr. Glen Shortliffe , the Law Special the Canadian restructuring of the region . Ottawa - Carleton , and the seat record bilingual the new accommodation the Ottawa deaths of the amalgamation , City the motion also the capital of the Canada .
the the Hon. the
hear !
business routine
library of the Parliament
introduction of the Prime report of the committee Joint
the Honourable Louis J . Robichaud , co - the committee Joint Committee of the Library of the Parliament , the the report following :
the 1998 8 December 1998
the Committee Joint Committee of the Library of the Parliament , the honour to present its
first REPORT
your Committee recommends that he be authorized to advise the Speakers the the Senate and the Canadian House of the House of the fiscal the their authority on the Library of the Parliament and that he be authorized to do the the recommendations to the chairs of the two Houses the Canadian Economy , the Library and the right use of the credits RCMP by the Parliament , the Upholder the documents or criterion regarding the , the documents .
your Committee recommends that the quorum the investigator the seven ( 7 ) the , enrolled that the two Houses are represented each time that he is the one vote or the one resolution or any other decision is taken , and that the chairs that room to be the the meetings for the the evidence and the in reaching the impression , enrolled that four ( 4 ) the members were and that the two Houses are represented .
your Committee recommends , the the Senate that he be authorized to sit during the committee , the Senate .
a copy of the Proc?s - Proceedings relevant ( Meeting No. 1 ) . They .
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Robichaud , the study of the report is placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
agriculture and Forestry
tabling of the Prime report of the committee
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , pursuant to the article 104 the the Rules and the Senate , I have the honour to table the Prime report of the committee on the Canadian the Agriculture and the the forestry , the door the the Estimates incurred by the committee to the years of the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report found to the Journals of the Senate . today , the motion
Naples - Newfoundland
the reform of the system school - Government amendment to the inclusion 17 , the Constitution , p the the Prime report of the committee Joint Special
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , pursuant to the article 104 the the Rules and the Senate , I have the honour to table the Prime report of the committee Joint Special the Canadian amendment to the inclusion 17 , the windows of the union of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , the door the the Estimates incurred by the committee to the years of the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report found to the Journals of the Senate . today , the motion
official languages
introduction of the Prime report of the committee Joint Committee
the Honourable Rose - Marie Losier - Cool , co - the committee Joint Committee of the Official Languages , the the report following :
the 1998 8 December 1998
the Committee Joint Committee of the Official Languages the the honour to present its
first REPORT
your Committee , the motion authorized by the article 88 the Canadian Act , the Official Languages the " the application of the bill , the the regulations and recommending the existing , and that the implementation of inclusion of the reports the the commissioner to the Official Languages , the the Speaker of the Council of the Treasury and the the Minister of the Heritage Canada , the report , pursuant to the article 104 the the Rules , the the Estimates encourues the this end , the committee to the years of the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament , the following :
your Committee recommends that the quorum the desept ( 7 ) the , the condition that the two Houses and the Opposition that representation , the time , a vote , the one resolution or the entire other decision , and that the chairs that room to be the the meetings for the the evidence and the in reaching the publication as the four ( 4 ) the are here , the condition that the two Houses and the Opposition that representation .
during the session , the Committee has examined the Partie VII the Canadian Act , the Official Languages , in order to the the government , the commitment to promote the francophone the the minority francophone and anglophones the the Canada and the support the development .
the Committee has the 28 meetings and heard 47 witnesses .
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Cool - Cool , the study of the report is placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Transportation
the Pearson the Trans - Conformity the Canadian and negotiations Honourable the the transfer to the board a?roportuaire local
the Honourable M. Robertson :
honourable senators , I wish question . the " the Leader of the government to the Senate .
many of Parliament of the region . the Atlantic . concern now , the uncertainty surrounding the service Air Traffic the our most small communities in the region .
however , the Pearson the Trans the one another problem . the Canadian this uncertainty .
all those who borrow this Pearson know that he has been lost to the years of the years .
the government , negotiating to transfer of Pearson to the authorities local .
however , this neglect begin to do feel the effects .
it waiting for long , prison years .
the the " the highest the facilities and that the the fact ignoring the the needs current the the Pearson , the one , The in the Chatham Gleaner , the lobby of the board a?roportuaire the the Grand Fredericton , the indicated that a tale de20 million . $ is necessary to do the so that the Pearson respond to the standards current or the the standards , the CWB the our attendance .
the the request the so , lots key not . not too short .
the government , not . not willing to do this Investment the 20 billion . $ before the transfer of responsibility of the Pearson to the Consolidated local .
in the case , that , the board a?roportuaire local the little of opportunities of character .
he is the well , the revenues a?roportuaires down the Canadian , the Canadian restructuring of the industry . the transportation Air and the one reduction summer of the number of atterrissages .
the opportunity to a new exploitant nervous are still the great .
he is a , the my opinion , the one issue of fairness .
if the board a?roportuaire the the Grand Fredericton must be a real opportunity to succeed and the operating the Pearson , the Universit the capital and the centre of the New - New , the government , the goodies that he is really , in the part of the negotiations with the board a?roportuaire local the Canadian taken the control of the Pearson , the fact , all the years , he has spoken of the unfair this Pearson .
the Leader of the government provide the " the Senate . the record of the negotiations surrounding the problem serious to the people of Fredericton ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I do I do . " the armed the the negotiations in the " the subject of the Pearson the Trans , but I know what the the summer adopted in the other regions of the country .
i know particularly , the case of the Pearson the Halifax , the one process such a was passed and the Canadian and the registered the summer raised .
i must have the honour to my predecessor , the senator Graham , the the work . largely contributed to convince the government , the fund the improvements concerning the the capital of the Pearson the Halifax .
the entire clearly , the motion of the the motion shape when the types negotiations are taking .
a precedent . certainly was established .
as the knowledge what will the outcome of these negotiations , I do I will not in the Canadian surfacing the the ferries , but I am aware of the importance of the problem .
i am prepared to do the Canadian and concerns of the senator to the Minister of the .
the senator Robertson :
Mr. the Minister , I would the happy , grateful , the as the armed . the so , and senators ,
he seems that the fact " enough , the people needs .
however , we want to a the record of your speech the Canadian the Minister to the resulting the the the Canadian the home to Highway the courts quickly and with great the equity .
we look with keen the information your answer to the subject .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am ignore prepared to address this issue with the Minister of the Transport , the Honourable David Collenette .
the most , when the opportunity to appear , I am happy to speak to discuss the the problem with my colleague the the Council Office from the Canadian province of the New - New .
the Pearson the Trans - Conformity inaptitude the the system of pistes the developing some armoured
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I have a question Supplementary .
the Leader of the government would the the , the the years of the discussion with the Minister of the Transport the the Pearson the Trans , bring the attention of the last the the study of 1992 the the Department of the Transport , brought the need to extend the 78 per feet the rock is the west ?
now , this n not be welcome to the the aircraft turbopropulseurs .
the rock south - western the developing the the DC9 and the the BAC146 and , when he has done , the fare the reaction regional .
i ask the the Minister of disability the question with the honourable , the Minister of the Transport , but also with a place . the chamber , the Minister of the National Defence .
otherwise , the honourable senators , the Airbus the the Canadian Forces . the not atterrir the Canadian , the basis of the Canadian Forces to the Canada , the the ages enough invraisemblable .
when he is the Canadian and travelling the little of the basis of Gagetown - and the the is the Canadian , the basis of the Canadian Forces , only to the Canada , but also , the the level geographical , the the Commonwealth British - they must be the in addition to Moncton , the the very a n the long making welcome to Airbus the the Canadian Forces .
i am asking if the second observation the the need , and the image in the home of the the Department of the Transport and 1992 and then in the fact that the army the Gagetown the very that the the the military not have not there to atterrir their aircraft , the be ready .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I would be the suggestion to the ministers of the the comments of the Opposition Deputy of the Opposition .
the business Intergovernmental
the Ontario , The restructuring regional municipale - Conformity refusal of the province of contempt of capital national bilingual
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the capital of the country , ENAP Harris and with the would then unilingual English .
this new accommodation the Ottawa regroupera the one of the all the municipalities urban the Canadian initiatives the Ottawa - Carleton .
this decision of the government Conservative Mr. Harris demonstrates the ones the the sort of fact , the one country , both languages official .
he is unacceptable and intol?rable that the Canada has a much national unilingual .
we would the unique capital the the world who Plains the Laurendeau institutional .
i do know that the country , both languages official or more , not the not complied the linguistic duality in his much .
the Minister can the the us that if the government , the the intent of the pressure the achievements Harris and the Hon. the to the the respect to both languages official , the the French and the English , in the capital of our country ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the statements the people were made to the Senate by the senator , the by the senator Milne , earlier and the other night reflect my point of the recommendation that he is absolutely that the capital of the country , bilingual .
the board municipale is certainly a responsibility provincial , but Ottawa . the city such a no other , the country .
it is the capital of the country .
the Canadian answer to the name of the government , honourable senators , I wish to screen that I believe firmly that the city of Ottawa . the one capital national bilingual .
honourable senators , the Prime Minister has spoken publicly to this regard .
he bestow with the Prime Minister of the Ontario and the pressera the other , the the the CWB to ensure the the the Canadian capital of the country , d?clar?e record bilingual .
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , I still the answer given by the Leader of the government and I am fully the agreement with him .
the senator Gauthier :
honourable senators , I understand the Government of the government .
the municipality the Ottawa - Carleton is a creation of the government provincial and the then the the juridiction .
the Canadian , the the Minister can the the " if the government , the committee , withholding the Canadian province of contempt of capital national bilingual , disposes the power constitutional or the powers that the authority to the Act , official languages to correct this situation and to the so that a city of Ottawa agrandie the and remains the capital national the the country with both languages official ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , a number of the people f?rues the federal constitutional , there was the the honourable , are the opinion that the article 16 , the Act constitutional authority a number of the the government , for intervention in the the issues such .
the the the I can say , a point of the legal , the motion that the government , and the Prime Minister of the in the time , the in the Canadian to the question .
the question constitutional is complicated and patience usually a review carefully .
frankly , I think that the government pr?f?rerait that the question that resolved . the " and court .
we are the Prime Minister of the Ontario respond to the fundamental clear views of the people of the country , the the honourable , the the Prime Minister and the other leading .
he is the hope that the Prime Minister of the Ontario will those comments to the serious and that he finds the fusil the ?paule .
the senator Nolin :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
i am the agreement with your answer and with the the blood government clumsily the discharge .
he not the no doubt that we need to question of the , the knowledge . the us hope the Canadian initiatives the Hull , the fact , the Canadian the region . the capital national .
this is a . the problem .
what assistance financial you , you happen to make the Canadian you to the the government . the Ontario . using not the reasons economic to avoid the change the situation ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , he is a the one issue , the Canadian frank discussions between the Prime Minister of the Canada and the Canadian the Ontario .
i believe that these discussions will be the the the Prime Minister of the Canada fewer , the when he will the consideration of the comments which will have made , the the least in this chamber , the us are very supportive to the the government to the make the so that Ottawa , a much bilingual .
he would be the make the the conjectures the the details of these discussions to the moment .
however , the message the summer , clearly .
the government . the Canada and the Prime Minister of taking the the serious .
the hope that the Prime Minister of the Ontario , will not .
the Honourable Marcel Prud ' s
honourable senators , after the long proceedings , the Queen Victoria the announcement that Ottawa would the capital of the Canada .
Montreal , Kingston and Toronto were called the Canadian and capitales , and the things . the were not , fellow in any of these cities .
this is doing the one was executed .
i agree with the senator Nolin that the would favourite that Hull the value of Ottawa , but nonetheless , Ottawa . the capital of the Canada .
i am perhaps the be little , The with my colleague , in the meaning that the government , should include the the fund or a expressions .
i ask that Ottawa reflects a ideal .
i , I am a Canadian French - the Quebec .
the result , the government , should like to the people of Ottawa and the the government . the Ontario , this city should mirror is that the " did the it be , the capital of the the Canada .
since I like to positive , I suggest the the the Honourable Leader of the government think , with all its colleagues , the introduction a motion to the Senate to the council the all the officials that Ottawa should mirror the real nature of the Canada .
the Leader of the government songera the " take a simple resolution of the Senate to remind the first , the the Ottawa should represent all the Canadian ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , we r?fl?chirons certainly the this suggestion .
the same , I wish to me to the original the the the the Honourable Senator has said in the preamble .
he has been many more eloquent the the subject that I do could the be , but it is a chamber . the case of a vital serious to us all .
the Transportation
the acquisition of the air strikes Canadian Airlines by Air Canada - Government regulatory the one might monopoly in the industry . the transportation of the pressing air - Government Policy the the government
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I have two or three issues relating Air Canada and his merger with Canadian Airlines and the entire last decision of December Canada .
as we , we all , Air Canada has now stands the the lines December of closer limit the the tabling and the Order final the the actions and the Canadian , the
the corporation Air Canada . the not specify the way detailed the event divisions the problems , but it has left to the it looking at the the consent of bodies of Regulations , the same that a pipeline the the provisions of a bill to new regulatory or the new policy .
i , I , d?duire the the statements general , the the proposed a thing in the meaning , the " in the discussions with the leaders of December Canada and that their study of the proposal . She ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
the senator Forrestall :
this is because the the was a section of the Presse Canadian .
the senator Boudreau :
the committee , the Transportation of the House of the House of the Hon. the .
the senator Kinsella :
he not to the however , neither the the article 47 .
the senator Boudreau :
he not the no doubt that the report of the committee on the the Transportation and the the communication will report . soon .
the two reports provide the - be a direction as the one of specific , the Canadian Transportation Air .
i am the the armed the the ground of the hormone the the offer the response Canada .
the the the I know , the time , I , I read the the Globe and Mail .
air Canada - Conformity increase the the rates air
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , we have seen Air Canada preferred a second reading .
the first step , the the consist? the lurch to the , if the government relative to a way that is that the deficit his freedom of tango , it 241 the offer , the the smaller the ?crouler . the bill to merger , the in the effect of a real gifle the the government . the Canada and the all the Canadian populace .
he is the chamber , something which the examinations the the subject of the rates in the discussions between the government . the Canada and raised in the
in the Canadian the increase the the price of the fuel , we represent just the pain a higher general , 3 per - and engaging air , the the motion of real abuse .
these rates transfers , and not redescendent have the
human not seem to why they not have not redescendre .
there has the Canadian and discussions on the process of Regulations of the government . the Canada and raised in the justifieraient that the corporation air take the all the opportunities , bureaucratic the Competition and the encaisser the the consumers a higher the 3 per - and engaging ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
the interests of the people of the Canadian and small communities . , the Canada and the the pressing will the the heart of the discussion with Air Canada .
the senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate might - the us that if the will ask the response Canada . cancel the increase the 3 per to the the the one aspect d?cent the Senate up ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I do think that the the " out of bitterness a transporteur Air national .
however , the us that the the increase is due to the fact that the cost of the fuel the motion increased , if I do I understand , the 100 per the the years of the last month .
if the price of the fuel down , we see if the rates air down the .
business Social , Science and Technology
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic - Conformity Opposition the Canadian the Canadian the government . the Alberta
the Honourable Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , my question . question to the chairman of the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology .
the chairman , the reference to a letter that two ministers of the government . the Alberta , Shirley McClellan , Minister of the keynote international and Intergovernmental , and Walter Paszkowski , Minister of the Foreign municipal , he have sent to 7 December for the affair the the bill to the C - 6 , to the Canadian protection of the information personal .
in this letter , the summer largely attached and the Organization the second communication from the the government . the Alberta , the province take the information of the amendments to the bill to the to remove the GST , empi?tent the Canadian expertise of the provinces , and that the other provisions .
the the the representations Japanese made by the government . the Alberta , the question of federal , what is the answer to the chairman of the statement of the Alberta , which , if the bill to the motion pass , the Alberta would be sterilization the challenge the constitutionality the this bill to maintain its powers to the words of the Constitution ?
the Honourable Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I will respond to the last the in the Prime the .
the so some , including the government . the Alberta , can think that the bill to the motion unconstitutional , the constitutional consulted by the committee and , in the , by the government . , the fact confident that the bill to the will necessary constitutional .
the first question is a little more complex , the knowledge that is the Canadian law . the rate not to the activities intraprovinciales enrolled that the province that a bill to the taxation such a the bill federal .
he would difficult to the business of the exemption to both programs , the the would the case , a province to adopt a bill to the protection of the information personal the great the bitter the the bill to the C - 6 .
he is clear that is the one point of the honest and the motion . the main the provision meeting in the bill to the federal : the one in order to the Act , safeguards the the information personal such as the part , the bill to the federal , the rate not in the case , that the
the " whether , by the , if the prior to the Canadian law , the Alberta the Canadian health . substantially similar .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the issues arises the the chairman of a committee . the not to the the subject to the study , but strictly the the activities of the committee .
the issues of the the TAGS the the the University of Committee . the not recevables .
the senator Roche :
honourable senators , would the difficulties , there is a reason expliquant why the not the not asked to the government . the Alberta , testify the the committee for me to Position , the the the , the 15 October , he was sent a first letter , the just the be followed the one letter quasiment identical ?
the senator Kirby :
honourable senators , I speak , the course tomorrow , but , the following the the I know , the the requested to many provinces , they brought a letter , including the Alberta and the Ontario , if they wished appear .
the Ontario , sent to the representatives , the Hon. the - Minister Deputy of the health .
the Minister . the not appeared .
if I am recall , the and the Clerk of the committee will the course , the the requested to the government . the Alberta , he did appear , but it has answered that the letter suffice as anxious and that one . compara?trait the Hon. the .
the Transportation
air Canada - Government increase the the rates
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question the Act Air Canada and the Canadian increase the the rates .
the question . , the question and the , the answer to the , but I would be the supplementary to question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the the U.S. Financial , Laura Cook , the - speaking of December Canada , would the " the subject of the increase the the rates that the depository to the United - United and other destinations international had been removed and that their cost . was not increased the reason , the Competition .
therefore , if Air Canada . " in the Canadian monopoly to the Canada , the Teleglobe , it is it is waiting to the the the rates . lowered the increase ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I do I do confirm or d?mentir the the just the " the senator Oliver .
i will however ways to obtain the Canadian information and I would the will be the the most soon .
the senator Oliver :
the Minister . the - the not the the motion shocking that the company air increase its tariffs domestic , but not the rates international ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the motion to the least surprisingly and the motion of the the credit to be considered .
the Heritage
the status of the museum commemorative the the Holocaust
the Honourable Colin Kenny :
honourable senators , I have given that the week , the Canadian . the I am do the question .
the the groups concerned by the status of the Museum commemorative the the Holocaust the are adress?s the I .
the Leader of the government to the Senate might - the us that is that he , is the the status of the museum ?
the government equivalent - the Hon. commitment in the principle of the implementation of the Canadian a monopoly Museum ?
if such is the case , the - that the northern the look the matter advance ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the comm?moration the this event prosecutors in the history of the betterment is a question . important .
unfortunately , I do I do the subject in detail today , the
i am in response to the the Honourable Senator , and the - be quite - I , to bring tomorrow .
on business orders
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the the documents electronic
third reading of Motion to vote , Adjourned the the debate
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I have said yesterday that I had the intent of making a subamendment , the reading of the third reading of the bill to the .
he would be the be a that I would read the the amendment to the in the .
i move , seconded by the Honourable Senator Doody :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion ?
the senator Murray :
i remember the numbers of time to speak ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
as you are the Prime the wishes to the reading of the third reading of the bill to the , you disposez the 45 minutes .
i must however , expansion that , pursuant to a person of the Senate , the Chair will bring adjourn at 1:30 .
the senator Murray :
i would thank , Your Honour .
honourable senators , I would refer to the rule 7 ) 1 ) , the specific . the following :
the the application of the article 4.3 the the Journals parts and despite the paying aff?rente , the organization . " managing the information personal the the insu the the interested and the Hon. consent that the the case following -
this are the the reasons , solid the , the the opinion of the human reasonable , suffiraient the horrendous the communication of information personal collected the Canadian and for trade .
however , the bill to the regions then , circumstances , some .
the Canadian approach the rule of the I suggested the removal , I ?voquerai two of the circumstances them .
the one found to the rule f ) , the scope that he would legal the information of the information personal , the consent of the human drop :
... the Canadian and for statistics or the Canadian and for the study or the research ?rudites , these for the ability to jointly , the the security , release , the consent is virtually impossible to obtain and the organization informed the commissioner of the communication before the Canadian to the
no . the chamber , the commissioner that interrupt the process or participate in some way in the practice .
the right to the authority , the - ( is simply the Canadian be informed the the information collected to the the grounds trade , the subject of the human will releases the " the the purpose statistics or the Canadian and for the study - to
in order to the rule g ) , the communication of information personal collected by a business . turned if :
... it is the " a farce the the attributions understand the plebiscite of documents , a vital historic or archivistique , in the Canadian a moment conservation .
he is a chamber . the information personal collected the blood the , or the the subject of the other person , by the the business in the part of their activity - the by the blood mortgage , your card the credit , your record revamped .
he is that this is the information personal you the ability to releases only to the Canadian and for statistics or the Canadian and for the study or the research ?rudites the or , the the subamendment , notwithstanding g ) , the Canadian and for the plebiscite of documents , a " and historic or archivistique the .
referring - we to the spark the this part .
we are priority .
in the most of the case , he nes' is not the citizens ordinary .
the taxation here , the Canadian access to the the information personal the Canadian packed personalities , the provinces resources to the world . the political , the one of the Council or the one another .
i think that he is time that we fixions a deadline .
the people in the people as the right to the important , the Canadian protection of their lives private .
in the the concerns of the - paragraphs f ) and g ) , these people will still in life to the , opposed .
they will , the risk , the highest the the commissioner or the the courts , or others , and use before the bill to do protect their information personal .
the provision to the I am I attard? and that I wish to remove is the subamendment , notwithstanding rule ) , supporting the the information personal so that releases in the case where :
the ones principle the overlapping the to include a moment clause in the bill to the ?
in the Tab the information that the government has made debating the the members of the committee , the Greeks given to include this provision is the following :
the Act , the protection of the information personal comments of this issue in part of the definition of the information personal the the purpose of the bill to information personal the one person died for twenty years .
the approach restraint in this bill to the side . the Application , because it allows the disclosure of the information , but those of the remaining subject to the bill .
he is true that the Act , the protection of the information personal , the the summer agreed . there has some years , protects the information personal that subject of institution federal , the subject of particular .
it exempte the the provisions in the Canadian protection of the information on a person who is Mrs. been more of 20 years .
as I , I said , several other occasions , he can be a the good reasons , the the plan of the political government , the information , 20 years of the information personal that does the the governments , the table these information to the scholars ; but it is the way to see with the bill to the the us ones today , the
we implemented a bill to the inclusion of the information personal collected in the area private , and we are asking if a moment clause should simpler .
when the officials have appeared before the committee , I have asked the question next , Stephanie Perrin , Director of the Politique the Canadian protection of the life private the the group of the Act , Trade Ministerial the the Department of the Industry :
if I understand , this section and the rule , I - I correct the feeling that the the information personal collected by a body , a 2.4 , a society . cartes the credit , a society hypoth?caire , a company of the , or any more , could be releases 20 years after the Late the Canadian Human the question ?
i , I correct the feeling the ?
Ms Perrin :
it means that he not . not necessary to ask the consent of the interested to disclose that the
however , the disclosure of information be a valid the the words of the provision respecting the the subject of the bill , the so that he must be a one ground legitimate to the disclosure of the information , because the
he is the more a number of the criteria .
the the the that the , the motion that the not the not need to the consent for information the information .
a little more than the it is :
you must actually your grounds , if you repr?sentez a body , for the collection , the use and the disclosure of information personal .
i am I stands the the bill to the to see that the it speaking .
i have read the article 5 , the not . not really to the the the not the the us send the the Journals 1 and the the adoption as follows :
the Employment the the conditionnel in the Journals related to the the is the one recommendation and the Canadian a requirement .
i am I went stands the the Journals 1 , the are set the principles .
this Printed treating primarily the Canadian raising the information , and the not the disclosure .
the Canadian reading of the Journals , the news that the provision respecting the the subject to be called the preposition with the provision 4.5 the the Journals 1 , entitled : " Limitation the the use , the Canadian affiliate and the Canadian conservation the .
i am I , stands the this provision , and that I - I found ?
i have found both or three goes saying that the organizations , should the developing the the lines guidelines and apply to the procedures for the plebiscite of the information personal .
i have found a place clause , the adoption as follows :
the should destroy , effacer or d?personnaliser the information personal the " no , the need to the purpose pr?cit?es .
the that the motion no to the reason , a clause , the the the would legal the directors of the information personal collected to the the grounds trade 20 years after your death .
i , Dr. Perrin and I are unquestionably in the details , and I wish to the honourable jury all major their ears .
this provision strong essentially the Canadian and for the scholars and historic .
the entire clearly , you not have not yet heard the archiviste and the historians .
why the then , he ?
the the previous employees to their interests .
it continues to the words :
they are satisfied that , if we do we not a clause allowing the the organizations private , the the business and the the institutions of information of the information to the companies historic in the purpose of preserving the the issues historic , a line of the value will endorsing .
the bill to the news of the provisions providing the plebiscite of the information only as long that it is necessary to the purpose of which it has been recueillie , the the person strongly urging the institutions , destroy the information , they not have more need .
the example , a company of the with the honourable not feriez the case would strongly encourag?e by this provision to eliminate the information you the when it is the the most needed .
however , some information risk a public historic .
a leadership used in the correspondence arises the the Minister is the Canadian and refrain the Canadian Compagnie the Canadian despair of Hudson , the same - the the recent the virtues .
D?truisez your card the credit to - despair , honourable senators ,
he is a the the issues of the company .
if you upset in the bill to the one clause , the the the information be a tobacco when you not in your the need , the Permanent the the scholars ?
he remains to the Banking and the the companies , the Canadian of the opportunity to the people , for the Canadian maintain the the information would serve a vital historic .
it attempts the the horrendous by the the principles , but I do think that the that the acceptable .
let - I return on this .
he is a chamber . Affairs personal and the information personal collected the Canadian and for trade .
the hands of the the the , the Canadian good reasons historic to archiver all the information on Jean Chr or the the predecessors or successors , the the the cheques the information on the issues of cartes the credit , the mortgage or the pharmacie .
i am the that the us telling not .
i am the the kind of information personal not taking one .
the most , I say that we must understand the noteworthy , and I say that the one some respect .
i hope that the one some respect to the science , there was to the Science Social , but we must understand the noteworthy the the experts in Science Social , the the genealogists and the all the other .
they would be to maintain all the foods .
they would be to maintain all the information , because they believe that these games are relevant , as Privacy or Herv that the people .
they not agree have the one end of paper hundred be destroyed , particularly the the concerns that a the motion necessary to the important , today , or in the history .
they insistent the the fact that these information to resources .
i must add that some evidence from the the groups of Defence of the life private and some advocates of the liberties civilian were very well readers the the point .
i do believe that the people were thought the Canadian . .
i have asked to a witness the the name of Murray Mollard , Director of the 1896 Columbia Baxter Liberties Association , the the the in relaxed .
the answer . was :
i do believe that the us we a position official the the subject .
he is the the that the or not have something that the the debate in the Act , census .
it is the way to see with the census .
we talking here , a question trade .
he has said :
my opinion spontan? , the motion that 20 years , the not . not very long .
why 20 years , I do the news is the
the Canadian add a little more later :
the - be my colleagues have the people have something to add .
i do the campaign not the reason .
ninety years , it is my seems not very long .
i have the reference yesterday , the testimony of a lawyer , the name of Ian Lawson , the Canadian British - British , the motion of expert the the right to the life private and a traumatic the country friend , the senator Kelly , the the , the said , from the I have discovered , anyone .
he has said :
the - be the convivial - I , but the right to the life private the GST , principle to a person bequeath .
i refer to the way of Chartered the interests of expression .
in the , for the the motion of the Orders and the the application of the rights , the protection of the life private , I am asking the the would be the the public . the human the in principle , the human , the motion morte .
r?fl?chissez the Canadian . , honourable senators ,
i do I do the agreement clarifying Lawson the the point .
he is the so , do the unrest to the surviving the the individual , the .
however , the information personal becoming the sensitivity to the prospect and the extent that the time what the
this is the - be true , honourable senators , but it is the not , the my opinion , a reason for information of the information personal the the subject of this one .
it has said then :
he is a the same what would the matter appropriate .
i do I do assiduously the one aspect .
he is the the one aspect of 20 years . the not enough .
this is the not a position of principle .
the it , the motion of the Canadian time .
fortunately , the commissioner to the protection of the life private , Mr. Phillips , the summer . the direct .
i would remind the the the summer the odour of the bill to the the most agressif and the most strong the evidence before the committee .
i would have asked the horrendous this provision .
i will you read the exchange .
i am :
... I would suggest to justify the principle of clause of the bill to the view that the information personal collected the Canadian and for trade can be legally released 20 years after the death of the human that they relate .
justifiez get to us .
Mr. . Phillips :
i will try .
this provision is the same that the the the very in the bill currently the Canadian protection of the information personal .
it has been written by the the people who , the entire clearly , believe that the right to the protection of the information personal expire the Canadian death .
the senator Murray :
a lawyer we , the Canadian , something today , the
Mr. . Phillips :
if the motion of the and the the the is the one spouse agreed . the , I think that is the one spouse unfortunate .
i saw a point of the different .
i have learned in my good of High the Canadian protection of the life private that many of people . concerned , the information personal the biological tra?ner the left and the right , and death and the the the the transparency of these information .
he need simply the feeling the the example of the efforts efforts by the Canadian and people to the subject of the safety and the the inviolabilit? the people to personal , and death .
the opportunity to the the people . the not the right to the protection of the life private the the fact that they are predicting is , the my opinion , the " the egregious .
as we , we all the two , this point is raised in a place within the
the rules now in the Act , the protection of the information personal that 20 years after the death of a person , the information personal not have more protected .
the senator Murray :
he not there has no reason for making it to the area commercial as the bill to the the fact , not . - that the ?
Mr. . Phillips :
i do appreciate not the distinction between the types of information .
this , any . is that the the publisher the opinion , Senator .
you have the .
he is the authority why .
he has answered :
the " the said that the provision the honourable you mentioned was a rule of archivage shelf .
the disclosure should be impractical the rest of the code .
the example , the disclosure of information personal must be made to the purpose of which the information . was collected .
he is clear that the Minister is in the mistake or the the not the not including my question .
if the information . collected to a request of card the credit or the mortgage or a guideline the Canadian pharmacie , the motion of the .
he is the chamber . the disclosure of information to the purpose of archivage to the the purpose statistics or to the the research ?rudites or any other things , the kind .
i do think that the the fact , including the question that I soulevais .
honourable senators , I have said , several times that , the I , the government and the Parliament , prior to the Canadian law will the in enorgueillir .
in the , he widening the scope of the Act , the protection of the information personal the the information personal collected in the area commercial private .
however , the provision allowing the disclosure 20 years after the death of the interested is , the I , a serious deficiency the one of legislation by the excellent .
human not the same defend this provision in the thrust of the the principles , and I think that it is ind?fendable .
we know , the Canadian protection of the life private the Crow lost the the ground to the years of the years .
this is the experience that we have deliberately to the date .
this is the meaning of the provision that I wish to eliminate the the bill to the .
the right to collect and the information of the information . should not the ones the all the other rights .
we can permit the adoption of this provision and hope that it will always used to the minister and the the respect to the rights legal , looking , provided the the people who is the ?teintes , or more we can speak now and protect as we , should the life private the the people in the the concerns of information archaic personal collected by their discriminates , their lenders mortgage , their pharmaciens and other .
i hope that we will speak and to die this provision of the bill to the .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I must you tell the , if the Honourable Senator Kirby made this is up , the speech will assimilable the one debate . dimming .
the senator Kirby :
honourable senators , I finish I express the the subject of the amendment but , what the the in the , I would put the adjournment of the debate .
if I have the right to Privileges , the motion of amendment and the Canadian motion of the third reading of the " the study .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you you speak to the subject of the amendment .
the senator Kirby :
honourable senators , the the the character great , bringing and dynamic evolve the the intervention of the senator Murray , I do I do . In the way down this afternoon , afternoon and I prefer to the honourable tomorrow afternoon , afternoon .
i move the adjournment of the debate .
the Honourable Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , I called the honourable the , the one moment to the authority to leave of questions . the " the senator Murray .
you , you , with ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
is the the Canadian agreed , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Roche :
this issue to the excellent speech that the removal of Senator Murray and the reason I , thank .
it reprenait and Biculturalism the words of a letter that the government albertain the letter le16 November , the chairman of the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology .
he is a the one letter of inadequacy disagreement , the bill to the C - 6 .
i do will not the comments , but I am prepared to the make freely .
it is the not prepared in the two languages , but I am prepared to the make freely if a senator . the the not yet received .
cooperative , the government . the Alberta hardware that is the Canadian law , reconsidered and that the , supprime the GST , empi?tent the Canadian expertise provincial to give the time to the small and medium business of the reporting as it is the Canadian and the implementation of the bill to the and the WTO the Honourable the the consultation to the government , safeguards the the information personal .
this is the substance that the request the Alberta .
the way of the usual is the evidence before a committee for the the agenda the bill to the in the .
i do I do I get the one long discussion on the reason for the the representatives of the government . the Alberta . the not appeared before the committee .
he seems that they have pr?sum? that the committee has made in suggesting the letter 16 November , and the motion ? - be well , the .
the Honourable Senator Murray think it is the amendment that he has the present , and I have listened carefully when he , the presentation the character limitatif - awaited the manner get the the objections raised by the government . the Alberta ?
if the the should the us to the the subject to this stage - the ?
we have a province , the one such issues . the bill to the the " no should not to see the the point of the in the the Supplementary not enough to consideration the the the Senate . appear the bill to the in Social reading .
the senator Murray :
first , I do believe that the the government . the Alberta , the payroll of the provision that I take the make remove the the bill to the .
second , I must say , I hon. friend that , for the debate . second reading , I have expressed the opinion of a layman , the other for the the that it , in saying that the bill to the potential a year valid and legitimate the the power to the government , in the Canadian trade .
third , a difference . allowed to the federal , the position of the Order the the committee Mr. Tass? , a former the - Minister of the Justice , the motion of the the the bill to the motion in the limits of the powers of the Parliament , the
fourth , the bill to the meaning a clause providing that this bill . the rate not to the trade interprovincial the one in the , in a matter of three years , comes a bill to the " essentially similar to the federal - protection of the life private .
fifth , the the all the stalking worry the the Canada , the the the I know , have asked the , the long that the bill to the Senate refuse to the reasons contained by the government . the Alberta , it is the motion . the .
the the representatives of the government . the Ontario are concluded the the committee express their wholehearted the the respect to various aspects of the bill to the , but they have refused to express a difference or the discharge that the Ontario , a position on the constitutionality the the bill to the .
when the their the requested specifically , the people in pensaient , they have just responded that is the that the " Out .
a witness heard by the committee has said that the constitutionality the the bill to the would inevitably challenged the the courts , and I believe that the future . will be .
the senator Roche :
i thank the senator Murray , this question .
he has said that the problem could be solved if the provinces adoptaient the the legislation basically similar to the Canadian the government , the
the Alberta , defines mentioned that the in the letter , saying that , since the " to anything similar to the was not broad in the bill federal , it was too broad to allow the Canadian and law correspondantes that becoming .
the senator Murray :
honourable senators , I do difference not the point raised by the government . the Alberta , the subject of the character enough General of the " to anything similar to the
however , I quote that the only province , the one bill dealt is the Quebec .
the Minister of the Industry , issue of the name of the government , the previous indicated that he jugeait the bill to the Quebec essentially similar to the bill federal .
as the the other provinces , they have three years , at the matter .
i believe that the the Alberta . in the Canadian write a bill to the .
this province . is not multitude in the darkness .
it is before the TAGS the Canadian . with the government , the the the it is the
the following the memory that I reflected the one year career , the basis public benefaction the Canadian and counsel extremely knowledgeable in the area of the relationship federal - provincial .
i would brought to believe that he not . not files that the Alberta the evidence of the political and gathering a bill to the adapt? the the needs of the substance similar to the bill federal .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Kirby , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act , the border judicial
bill to the Second - Third Reading
the honourable senators , we know , the date of 0.3 the the bill to the C - 7 , the motion of important to the
we in the previous was a " the years of the session 81 .
since the the the summer the Canadian first time , the bill to the the MVTA advantage of the work of the committee Standing the the business legal and Constitutional , the the single the the Order of serious gaps in the bill to the .
the Solicitor General has answered with a largesse the spirit and a speed admirables the ?laborant the the amendments to the latest the bill to the .
in the wording present , the bill to the Organization , the my argument , a single very useful to the right Canadian .
the the importance , this bill will the Canadian protection of the children and the other people vulnerable the biological be the coolest the pr?dateurs sexual .
honourable senators , he is important to note that he is a the important sauvegardes the the the concerns of Rights of the people r?habilit?es .
we take very the the serious the integrity of the system of offenders .
the access to the information personal the the offender will limited to the policiers given and the the staff of the organizations representing the ports , the .
the postulant will sign a accompany by which he agrees to the the the " records the Canadian the meaning general , the scholars convergence the the , the in the fichier automatis? a indication allowing the basis . the long to the subject of this or a challenge of a condemnation .
the evaluation of agreement indiquera that the name of this one found in the meaning order scell?e and cigarettes the names of the r?habilit?es .
the access to this indication not be possible that the magnitude a number Code in the classroom .
this are the important sauvegardes .
in addition , through the the work of the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional , the bill to the specific date , he is here only to the people interprovincial guilty of a violation sexual the are r?habilit?es .
in the the concerns of the heat , the issues of offenders remain scell?s .
the definitions data in the bill to the people were great navy .
the bill to the Krever now , computer " to children , and the " and vulnerable to the
the the the the bill . was supported by all the parties in the other place , the same that the the ministers provincial and territorial the Canadian Justice and the authorities relating to the application of the legislation across the the Canada , I believe that we must the support .
( the motion is agreed and the bill to the amended is read a third time and passed . )
the Estimates , the Estimates , 1999 - 2000
the Canadian the report of the committee , the Finance Finance the the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A )
the Senate proceeded to the study of the second report of the committee on the Canadian and money Finance ( Budget Supplementary the the Estimates ( A ) , 1999 - 2000 ) , the " the Senate . 2 December 1998 .
the Honourable Anne C . Cools ( - speaking of the senator Murray ) , "
that the report be adopted .
the honourable senators , I wish to the words , now , the this motion of importance of the great importance and , by emphasis , the the second report of our committee , the Finance Finance the the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A ) , 1999 - 2000 .
the honourable senators soon . the report is complete and that he describes the the details important to the study of our committee .
i say that the report is the best tribute to the so that the the committee .
the committee , the Finance Finance is responsible for the the Estimates budget for the Senate ; it helps the Senate to fulfil its obligations parliamentarians , the consistent the review of $ method and individuals the Estimates , the government .
the committee . is unfair the traditional 23 November 99 to the entendreM. Richard Neville bearer Andrew Lieff , from the the Council of the Treasury .
these two officials have the evidence of the most of opening in their evidence and they have answered the the issues of the honourable with great the field and the attention .
this last we , informed that he quittait the part current to become comptrollership General Deputy .
he we , the donor that he benefits of new part of the beginning of December .
i think that I speak to the name of all the honourable the members of the committee and the all the honourable the General when I timely our appreciation and our appreciation for his contributions and the the assistance to the us . brought to the committee to the years of the years , and I think that I speak to the the name of all the honourable when I , wish to the great success in the future .
honourable senators , I wish to go to the to thank all the members of the committee for the the I believe that their study attendee the the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A ) , and I have thank the their work relentlessly .
i wish to thank the senator Murray Murray , the the guided the one hand firm , just and experte the committee in his thorough .
i wish to the benefit for la the welcome , the the public . the committee , the two new senators , the the senator Finnerty and the senator Finestone .
her the senator Finestone I informed that it is the not the intent of stay the the committee , but since the it has attended the the first meeting , it has signed the the the employee of a good committee , sitting .
it is , honourable senators , I would urge the feasibility the report .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is passed . )
bill to the chronic the decision of some decisions medical
second reading of Debate the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Carstairs , seconded by the Honourable Senator pin , seconded the Canadian second reading of the bill to the S - 2 , the chronic the decision of making medical legitimate respect to the treatment of survival and the the treatment of the pain . - (
the Honourable Senator Lavoie - Roux )
the Honourable Rose - Marie Losier - Cool :
honourable senators , I ask the leave of the " the reading of the second reading of the bill to the S - 2 , tabled the the Order of the Order of the name of the senator Lavoie - Roux .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the leave is the it leave ?
Dex Senators :
the agreement .
the senator Cool - Cool :
the d?mographie the the needs of the Canadian health . , the question , in changing ocean .
since 1997 , 40 per - and Canadians and the the health seniors the " the least 30 years . the coping the " the least one member of their family .
the the Canada , a adulthood happens , in average , the Canadian years , soigner a traumatic that the higher a child .
in lieu the Canadian the fact , our population , medicine , he is time , honourable senators , the one of such a bill to the Senate business . the Canada .
today , the I wish attention your attention of the article 6 , the bill to the , the legal the coordinator , in cooperation with the authorities provincial and the Friends of the professional the Canadian health , the institution . lines guidelines Finance respect to the forbearance and the aviation the the treatment of survival , the the treatment of the pain and the the care palliative , the use and the occasional the education . the great public the the treatment of the pain by the average medical and the latest the formation of the professional the Canadian health , the the concerns of treatment of the pain and the care palliative .
honourable senators , he considers the the government , the establishing of the standards , strategic a quality of care palliative , the one accessibility to the care for all the Canadian and the health , in the need .
the care palliative should be incorporated the the other service of health and id?alement , they should be significantly the same the one area , the other .
as the the importance of Dr. James McGregor , the the Ontario Palliative Care Association , the Canadian and precision the the committee on Special the the Euthanasia and the assistance to the suicide , and I quote :
he considers the Canadian society , by the business of the government , the the coming of the care of health , the the organizations professional and the the professional the Canadian health , the quality of resources necessary to ensure a system of support intensif the the intent of the availability and the people families .
the this end , he is developing the area of the care palliative the way to ensure that the skills highway are easily available and accessible to all .
he is unfortunate that the the Canadian and Canadians continue to die in the suffering because the people . the not proposing to the skills .
honourable senators , the institution . standards Finance in the Canadian health care couple the the needs of the most patients the country from the
i wish to the importance of the government . the senator Carstairs , the would the purpose of eradicating a approach int?gr?e and the matter effective and accessible the services of care palliative the purpose of Canada .
the care palliative are designed to respond not only to the needs verbal but also psychological , social , cultural , ?motionnels and spirituels the year one and the the family .
the care palliative help the people patients in the Canadian life , live the time that he and the in the comfort and the dignity .
they are exceptionally the end of life and the Canadian and cycle than multifaceted the Canadian medical .
the one , the the Globe and Mail informs the 7 December 1998 , four Canadians , five feel that the care , older should be part of a program of care of health gratuit and universal .
the survey McGrath also that the quarter of the patients pay . the the costs payments and that a patient the nine the the need to offer . " no - care , older , resulting the resources financial .
the most of the people who have answered the the survey the said that the quality of the care door to wanting , because of the the collection of the limits on the number authorized to at the care gratuits and that they not had not the average of the quality of the Supplementary .
it is , we should nurturing and the availability the the most of the possible . citizens of the care palliative the quality of submarine the people needs .
i wish provide as example , Dr. Ferguson , Chief of the program of hospital extra - mural the the New - New , for excellence the need to institutionnaliser the care palliative in the part of the services of health , the Canada .
i quote the doctor Ferguson :
in the Canadian and provincial , the care , older the are d?velopp?s the or less in the part of a bill or the one of the
the us , the the New - New , they are part of the system .
we go that the us we a approach different and we seek the make the so that they are used to effectively .
is our objective , in the case .
i am proud that my province of the New - New the in advance in the development of the care palliative the the Canada .
i wish to the the support of the Senate and the Canadian House of the House , we can pass the types standards , through the country .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , if no other senator . I take the honourable , this section will remain the the Order of the Order of the name of the senator Lavoie - Roux .
prepared Canadian of the Church morave the am?rique
bill to the private to the Constitution the Act , incorporation - Third Reading
the Honourable Senator Corbin ) .
( the motion is agreed and the bill to the , read a third time , is passed . )
the Senate . the Senate
use the the Rules , Points of the Chair
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , before the us not emotions the Canadian motion of adjournment , yesterday , I have invoqu? the Rules with the senator Kinsella , the subject of the acceptability of a report presented by a member of a committee , the ages , the not the not authorized to the make the the name of the committee .
i had thought that the Governor Hon. reorganized his decision . - that , because of Committee of the business foreign the previous appear a meeting for discussion of the question sub in the report .
i wish I assure the the use the the Rules is corrected the the the committee . entreprenne the study of a report , he has been out .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the the the liberties the the public . the committee . provincial not the question of the
this are the committee , the same the turning the their functioning .
however , in the the concerns of thirteen the reports , I would refer to the rule 97 ( 1 ) , the said :
the report of a committee , the be introduced by the chairman of the committee or by a senator acclaimed by the chairman .
when a report is the , I do I do the power to me to the the senator , showing the summer acclaimed to the make .
i wish to learning that the chairman of the committee , the guru .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
the exchange of yesterday , the senator Tkachuk , Chairman of the Canadian the committee , the atrocities that the committee . was not proper the senator Hervieux - Payette to present the report .
the Honourable Leo E . Kolber :
honourable senators , I devais to the report of weekly last , but it . the said , expect .
i would have the make today , the but not yesterday .
we oppose the the Senate on yesterday .
the , as I believe in the the right , I have grown the senator Hervieux - Payette the the make .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
the Rules is very clear .
this is the not the chairman of the committee , d?l?gue the power , but the committee .
the Hon. the Canadian Federation the rule 97 ( 1 ) the the Rules .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the Rules , the the motion of the the right lacking the replacement .
i said , " the the article :
the report of a committee , the be introduced by the chairman of the committee or by a senator acclaimed by the chairman .
as the chairman , the the the one of the authority , the case 737 the my authority .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
honourable senators , I do I do delay the study of the bill to the .
i , my apologize to the senator Kolber to have suggested that the committee . was the - be not complied the Rules .
the second question , the summer raised was the knowledge how transfer a report , for the business contains , the the Senate to a place Committee , the the Senate that the word " that the Canadian the .
if the honourable preference that I , about the the Speaker , these 50 to the us can proceed to the other business . 15 at 1:30 , I am certainly a pleasure , to the the senator Hays the present the motion of adjournment .
however , he is the my opinion is that all the honourable senators who exactly the Orders followed and that it . the expliqu?e when it is to them , as the motion in my case , lies the confusion .
the Hon. the Speaker :
if the honourable senators , loans to me hear , I will try to clarification the second part of the use the the Rules .
the history . project the week , the and I have cited the Journals of the Senate . the 24 November , the Canadian decision taken by the Senate to the subject of the bill to the S - 4 :
the bill to the motion , read the second time .
the Honourable Senator Hays move , seconded by the Honourable Senator Jeffrey , the the bill to the Senate referred to the Committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade .
after debate ,
with the leave of the Senate and under Island , 30 , the Rules , the motion is amended and the preamble as follows :
that the bill to the Senate referred to the Committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade and the the Committee on the Canadian and business foreign .
the motion , such as amended , and the the Hon. the motion agreed .
honourable senators , the motion . the Orders , unusual .
he not to have not in the rules of the art of the one of the Canadian law , both committees .
after the , how the , the - that the road to the result ?
the result , if I have the right , the bill to the the summer referred to the committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade .
the committee , the committee and no amendment . the summer proposed .
the committee has the one of the the subject of the bill to the .
i must you refer to the rule 97 ( 4 ) the the Rules , the specific . the following :
when a committee . the Canadian a bill to the fault amendment , An report is considered as passed . no motion ; the senator who submission the bill to the proposed , the Canadian third reading of the beginning a place on the
however , as I just the the comments , the Senate had ordered the Committee of the bill to the " the other Committee .
the , a committee , the report of the bill to the fault proposals the amendment , I have concluded that he not done . the " the third reading of the bill to the because the the " the be referred to the other Committee .
this is that the the Senate . decided .
he was the projected the the chamber , the other Committee , and the motion . the said , would the
i know how the would have done differently the the subject of the report of the Canadian the decision taken by the Senate . week 81 .
i had the hands related by the decision of the Senate . chamber , bill to the " both committees .
i do see no how the would have done differently to apply the decision of the Senate .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
he would have reached , the the time , the tabling of the report and the the call the Canadian third reading , the the Senate upon , for the result with his decision : " - the Canadian law . will not read a third time .
we have decided to the chamber , a committee . "
i have had the impression that the Chair . short - circuit? the Senate .
the some , the not . the one detail insignificant , but I think that he is that he continues to get the the honourable the basis . the the paintings the one bill to the or the one of the
i understand the situation in the the honourable the the side 1939 the single Your Honour , since the are themselves the people decided to send the bill to the " both committees .
the senator Hays has learned the situation . the clear the second on the
each time that the honourable the the side 1939 sugg?reront the chamber a the bill to the " both committees , the honourable senators can be sought the us we are first , we are opposed .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , since it is the few minutes before the red the Chair , and the the motion , the am the author of this new process , a procedure , march the my opinion of the well managed , I wish to the the opportunity to say , wish to the subject .
i have the the subject of criticism urgently the Canadian the Canadian my colleagues and the funeral Hon. the so that the Canadian the Canadian the other author , could the I say , the this process , the the I am the the in claiming the paternit? .
i wish to the " valid , the Canadian the motion unusual .
however , the education given by the Senate is enough clear , the so that the Speaker : the well interpreted .
this is that the difference the risk of confusion .
the way , we , the the Senate , we tried to deal of the , the vice , the question suggestion , the sittings in the Order that the bill to the Senate referred to the committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade , the the the summer . , and that a time that is the would get the examination , the the the motion . , the bill to the Senate referred to the committee on the Canadian and business foreign to the the the agenda the Hon. turn .
the right agreed . " however , the " that how the Senate must be addressed the Canadian . the manner in connection the problem of the the risk of the reports successive .
the right to us . proposed His Honour I attach the .
the education . the respect to be considered as a person Special the the Senate , with the leave of the Senate 24 November and voted the , notwithstanding the rule 97 ( 4 ) the the Rules , the bill to the motion considered out of the committee on the Canadian and business foreign .
it up exactly the education . the Senate . given to the two committees , the summer representing the review the bill to the .
the result , honourable senators , I believe that this way of properly is the best solution and that it Mifflin .
i understand the concerns of the senator Lynch - Staunton and the other senators , the postal that this way of the not be not acceptable .
however , the motion of thing that we have essay?e .
i do I do believe that we , essaierons the new .
what the the in the , the following the the I have said and the the Governor Hon. the proposed to avoid the problems attracted by this matter to the Senate , I believe that this way of properly Mifflin .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I draw your attention of the article EH the the Rules , the said : "
the chairman of the committee be removed or parafer a copy printed the the bill to the the the amendments are clear enrolled -
i know that is the Canadian practice followed , but I do so that the same the article the the Rules and the the one bill to the the report is the fault proposals the amendment be the be signed .
what the the in the , yesterday , the bill to the motion came to sign the the board of the Clerk .
we have asked the the issues and the the summer referred to the senator Hervieux - Payette , the the the signing .
i am asking if the rule stated in the article EH the the Rules , the said that the chairman of the committee be removed the bill to the , the GST , the one bill to the retractions , proposals the amendment .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the answer to the Honourable Senator Kinsella , I know , he is a clause of the Rules and the specific .
the following the the I know , and the motion of use , the chairman of the committee sign the bill to the time , is tabled the the Transportation .
i do see no , the Canadian law , they are made .
i am sure that the Clerk records , they are sign?s .
the people . the are not , I am sure that the Clerk contacte the chairman of the committee .
the senator Kinsella :
the chairman of the committee was absent .
this is therefore , the member of the committee , the the signing .
the senator Kolber :
honourable senators , I am happy to speak to the sign .
the senator Hays :
the senator Kinsella , the out that the motion . the one chairman .
the suggestion of the senator Kolber I attach the .
the senator Kinsella :
i take only to protect the rights of the minority in this place .
the most of the chairs of Committee are the the honourable owned the the party government .
some of each are derogate the country side , the as the are the same the chairman of weekly .
in the absence of the chairman , the motion of Deputy - chairman of the act to his place .
the senator Kolber :
the article EH the one bill to the the the summer amended .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
we want just that the honourable the the party government signed the minority .
the Hon. the Speaker :
he would be the Senate that the Clerk specific the matter and abuses a message to all the table of committees to the darkness the confusion .
i wish to address the question raised by the Honourable Senator Lynch - Staunton , the the said that he would favourite that the Dnieper the third reading of the bill to the .
if we had the that , we would achievement the the supreme the Canadian decision of the Senate , the reason the bill to the " be referred to both committees .
when a bill to the motion pass without proposals the amendment , he not there has not the discussion .
the right to direct the the reading of the third reading .
referred the , we do have not have failed the bill to the the the question to the other Committee , as the Senate . was decided .
this is that the difficulty the reason we are dealing .
honourable senators , pursuant to the Order of the Senate , as it is at 1:30 p.m. , I wished the Chair .
( the Senate . adjourned . p.m. at tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 19
the Thursday 9 December 1998
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the dumping
Maxwell Tabled '
the Ontario
the Act , the restructuring regional - Government proposal of contempt Ottawa record bilingual - Conformity refusal of the Prime Minister 500,000
the Fisheries and the Oceans
the viability of the fishery , the salmon on the West Coast - Government need to a balancing the emergency - Government extend the Canadian hunger the Dan Edwards
doctors the the world
the Day international the the rights of the man
the Fisheries and Oceans
mine , the Fisheries and habitat Red the the Lower Fraser - Program of Tax the the costs of the - Gr?ve the Canadian hunger the Dan Edwards
the Ontario
the Act , the restructuring regional - LE refusal of the government 500,000 the privatization Ottawa as city bilingual - Government Position of the Federation of the communities French and accadienne
the bill to the restructuring regional - Conformity refusal of contempt record Ottawa City bilingual
the bill to the in the Canadian the agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
visitors in Gallery
business routine
the Senate . the Senate
tabling of the rectitude the the intent of the honourable the Canadian condition of the people disabilities
the Quebec
the advice school language of Modification the the article 93 the Canadian Constitution , p the the Prime report of the committee Joint Special
the application tabled under the Canadian Act , the Transportation the the Canada During some carriers air enhancing the salaries and the agreements , with Earl - Introduction of the second report of the committee
the Act , and the implementation of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
report of the committee
bill to the Canadian 99 on the implementation of the Canadian taxation tax
report of the committee , the business foreign
internal Economy , Budgets and Administration
introduction of the second report of the committee
the Canadian the regulatory
introduction of the Prime report of the committee Joint Committee
god and the Canadian visit the the children
tabling of the Prime report of the committee Joint Special
business foreign
notice of Motion to the cultivation the committee to stand the date of thirteen the the report final the the study on the Canadian amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty the the Atlantic North
the Ontario
the Act , the restructuring regional - Conformity refusal of the government 500,000 the feasibility of Stamp to the make the Ottawa . city bilingual - Notice of inquiry
the Senate
notice of Motion confirmant the Orders of Royal Assent
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Transportation
the divesting of fate public , The divestiture of the pier the the Island Thetis the Canadian bunch Indian the the Island Kuper
the Defence down
the problems m?caniques the the frigates the enemy
the replacement of the fleet the helicopters Sea King - Conformity at the the announcement
the business Social , the Science and the technology
the bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the the documents electronic - Conformity Opposition the the government albertain
the Environment
the announcement by the Alberta , the intent of Recombinant the treatment of pollutants dangerous imported the the centre of treatment of Swan Hills - Government Position of the government
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis in the c?r?aliculteurs the the West - R?ponse the the government
answers delayed the Canadian and the control
the Justice
the cost of the program of control of the weapons the gun - Government of the the Minister
the Defence down
the replacement of the squirrel the helicopters Sea King - Government ask the body of the purpose of the needs
visitor the Gallery
on business orders
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
third reading
jean the the Throne
motion of the Canadian the Adresse the answer to Continued the the debate
bill to the chronic the decision of some decisions medical
second reading of Final the the debate
library of the Parliament
the Canadian the Prime report of the committee Joint Committee
official languages
the Canadian the Prime report of the committee Joint Committee
the Canadian the political Canadian antidrogues
motion During the formation of a committee on Special - Debate the the debate
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
motion requesting the the committee , the business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , scinder the bill to the in both the Sittings of the article
the freedom religious the China , report with the pactes international the the United Nations
inquiry - Debate the the debate
the Estimates , the Estimates , 1999 - 2000
notice of Motion to Authorize the the committee , the Finance Finance . to the Economy , the Estimates , Motion to vote , Stands the the debate
the Summit of the Francophonie
inquiry - Adjourned the the debate , Maintien the the article
the rights of the human and the mother multiethniques
inquiry - adjournment of the debate
library of the Parliament
withdrawal of the motion of authority to the committee Joint Committee of sitting , the committee , the Senate
business Social , Science and Technology
motion of authority to the committee , to the state of the system of health - Adjourned the the debate
adjournment
the Senate
the Thursday 9 December 1998
the Chair . Chair . p.m. at the the Speaker , the the Chair .
prayers .
the Ontario
the Act , the restructuring regional - Government proposal of contempt Ottawa record bilingual - Conformity refusal of the Prime Minister 500,000
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , I do I do surprised the Canadian decision of the government 500,000 Mr. Harris of knowing the recommendation of the expert - board . the Canadian restructuring municipale or regional .
this is the behaviour evolve the v. Harris and with the the the is the the rights of the French .
he is the most of 40,000 years , I am very the this issue , as the the level school , the Canadian health , the the services social and now , the the level City .
i have always been present and I have the intent of up to do my work .
let - I would say that the question is far the be dealt .
yesterday , Mr. Harris Compensating , the the media , the the one of the to the Canadian French - the Ontario .
he not the not the " each time , each of the gains results in the areas of the education , the Canadian health and the the business municipal , the summer mobile by the courts or by the opinion public .
the numerous occasions , he has qu?t? the the fund to the government , for money . changes .
honourable senators , we pave all the government to our clause to do the so that the government 500,000 Mr. Harris doubt the opinion , the Government and reclassification bilingual the new accommodation the Ottawa , the capital of the country .
we pass , honourable senators , let the new port municipale decide the the evidence of the Laurendeau the this board .
honourable senators , we pave the the government incitatives .
we , recommanderons the correct the affront to the equity and the Canadian law , to the respect to equality of the two languages official in the capital of the country .
Mr. . Harris role of expression dangerous , rebuke the Canadian French and the so , some people . " gagnante .
rather the folies !
Mr. Harris , we do we not impressionn?s !
the Fisheries and the Oceans
the viability of the fishery , the salmon on the West Coast - Government need to a balancing the emergency - Government extend the Canadian hunger the Dan Edwards
the Honourable Pat Carney :
honourable senators , this week , a man who diminishes his life to help the people of the communities coastal the Canadian British - British was in my office for the the assistance of the government , and the the Senate .
Dan Edwards , a p?cheur the the Island of Vancouver , the Canadian Coast Fishermen , in the " the legendary - fifth day , extend the Canadian hunger to bring the attention of our communities coastal the are devastated economically and wasteful by the collapse this year , the montaisons the salmon Red the the Lower Fraser .
Mr. . Edwards the Solicitor the honourable Ray Perrault etGerry Comeau and I - the to describe the frustration .
the the the Dan hardware to the one term , his deadline of the hunger , the motion that the government , negotiating with the government provincial and the stakeholders to find a way of the in the " and people of the communities which the people of the so Tisserant .
the " now , the credits federal , regarding the voluntary the people to leave of the Canadian the fishery and the " to the fishermen the paying the the difficulties the the in dealing .
honourable senators , he not there will not the fishery viable the Canadian Coast Fishermen if all the fishermen , the skills and the experience required . forced to leave of the Canadian the fishery , the following the the program of buying .
he is the the fishermen to have a fishing viable .
the Auditor General is the agreement with Dan .
in the report of the recent , he has made reference regularly the Canadian need to support a fishing viable .
he has said :
the challenge that must challenges the managers the the Department of the Fisheries and the the Oceans is the deficit the stocks current and the back to the are low , the in the Canadian viability of the fishery .
he will be the Department adapte the system of the " the new realities and legal the necessity and the support of the stakeholders the the means truly .
he has also underlined the need to :
... deal of problems associated the Canadian consultation to the latest the reports with the stakeholders and the jobs findings of the partnership to share of responsibility 2.4 the Canadian and the cover the cost .
this is that the Dan Edwards the .
the " now , the government , not committees of the " and processing the assistance of the communities that the program of 300 million . $ 550 the year , for the opposite to the crisis dealing the salmon coho will also the deal of the Canadian the salmon Red this year .
would be the system of the - job . the not the fishermen the not have not have inshore , which is the the fishermen aboriginal and the aboriginal the the in order to the assistance social .
such is the situation in the communities where the this year , the the fishermen the money , in some cases , the the tens of thousands of $ the margin of Fisheries and the costs of strongest , and that , for a fishing the not the not have the .
Dan a a coalition baptis?e Fraser consummate Sockeye Crisis related .
it covers the communities coastal the crient genocide fault of the .
Dan the lost 50 books for the beginning of the deadline of the hunger .
he is physiquement bedrock , but not the way lost the the determination .
the senator Ray Perrault and I - the we exhort? Dan the not . to his days in danger , but it is resolved the not . eat before the somewhat a the interest in the case .
the course , the government , the salaries with the province and the various stakeholders to the developing a plan to the specific a balancing the emergency the the people who live . communities . the British - British .
the collapse of the area of the salmon sockeye in the Lower Fraser is a disaster natural .
he is the the postal the use of the Canadian origin natural to the help those who are tremendously affected .
they have been implemented in the in Ontario and the the Quebec after the ice the ice .
the the fact , the " the New - New the 1998 , the Fish the summer victims of a virus .
i am the , the the so that is the Dan Edwards , the situation r?gnant in the communities , the motion before despair , not possibly volatile .
he we must show that we have the political partisanship necessary to deal . problem , one of the communities as aboriginal that the aboriginal , before the one tragedy human not to produce the Canadian Coast .
doctors the the world
the Honourable Marisa Ferretti Barth :
honourable senators , I draw your attention of a bill lanc?e by the organization M?decins the the foundation , the legal the changes to the care medical the the young itin?rants the Montreal .
the following the stakeholders the work with the the young itin?rants , the d?nombrerait the the time de2 $ the notice $ young , the homeless the Montreal .
these young are d?sorganis?s .
many , they not have not the card the assurance - 1986 .
the experience , they know that they not be not , received when they will pr?senteront the the emergency .
they are so , largely health .
doctors the the foundation the single the Right the the months of January a team volante the doctors who does reach directly to young the people . g , the motion ? " - that the Canadian street .
i wish to the the words of the doctor R?jean Thomas , lies the the wonderful bill , the Catholic the one journalist that the board choose to deal to the problems that literacy the poor the one country rich .
is a bill , should to the inevitable these young the living in the street and the Canadian misery .
i would suggest all , honourable senators , the honourable awareness the the problem of the young itin?rants the country from the
the Montreal , the country centre community to the elderly , the close to broadcast - Canada , the the boulevard Ren? - L?vesque , we will hesitant , the 26 December , the Prime the one series of days . the years coalition we offrirons the asile and the room , the discrimination the age , the all the itin?rants the Canadian city of Montreal .
this initiative Mifflin , the and the entire provide the the room the Canadian reseller the week .
the the people . will the secourir these people of samedis and dimanches , because he not there has nothing to the people left to the - the .
we have thought that the beginning of 26 December , we can the help each of the week , long that he we will be the the make .
the Day international the the rights of the man
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , the 10 December Gallery the Day international the the rights of the man .
in this end of Millennium , the Canada and the world world to be proud of the instruments , pactes and other mechanisms ?labor?s by the United Nations and the other organizations to educate the public , the fact that all the ones human naissent citizens . dignity and the rights .
however , he is unfortunate the look more as the atrocities and the plight that the people of the vulnerable of our society . , the aged , the most many of losing their lives , and dignity and their safety .
the Declaration Universal the the rights of the man . is not enough respected for the place to the r?jouissances .
he is important that all the Canadian m?ditent the country contribution to the promotion of the respect to the rights of the human and the Canadian the priority that the deal this issue in our schedule and the one of the state .
the parliamentary the Canadian Tobacco the the government that the words and the actions of the Canada , the the ?chelon national and the the ?chelon international , are well consistent with the statements , pactes and other tools the the Canada is signatory .
we do we not we talk of the minutieusement the case of users of the rights of the human and we do we not allow the factors economic or political the ones the the respect to the rights human rights , held as the heart , our society .
in the the parliamentary , we are we , along the the the country respect to the rights human not be not s?lectif or al?atoire , and the the the us not soulevions not the question only expediency by the the groups of interest or the media .
the respect to the rights human must be continually the Canadian telecommunications . the our actions .
we must then we try to adopt the the practical and the the procedures to the support of the application Increase , continue and impartiale the the rights of the human .
i urge the new and leadership of the Senate to the act on ethnic a committee , the rights of the human , as I , I , the proposed in the part of a motion to the years of the last session .
a monopoly Committee we would the make a to the $ the people who have lost the life or the other Freedoms fundamental .
the Fisheries and Oceans
mine , the Fisheries and habitat Red the the Lower Fraser - Program of Tax the the costs of the - Gr?ve the Canadian hunger the Dan Edwards
the Honourable Raymond J . Perrault :
honourable senators , I have contacted today , with the Minister of the Fisheries and I am I also talked clarifying Dan Edwards , gr?viste the Canadian hunger .
i have had some information , I wish to the " the Senate .
the fact that the the circumstances exceptional victimized the the years of the season of Fisheries the the salmon the 1998 , Fisheries and Oceans Canada remboursera the costs of the " and fishermen trade , the blood . serious effects financial the Canadian , the the Cranbrook pressures in the Fisheries and habitat Red the the Lower Fraser the the years of the summer the , the union the Minister Dhaliwal .
the I have asked to the officials of my Department of the first , the people could the struggle the Stamp the cheques the Income the chamber l . "
the $ two million . $ 6 billion directly to $ 1 bracket holders the fishing or landlords the homes to the the soulign?M. Dhaliwal .
honourable senators , I have also the labour the other data , but it would too long - in the government to the Senate to the time at the
the government makes the the government in the Canadian media . You .
Mr. . Edwards is very encouraged the knowledge that the Minister could well into the Polish with him . , the afternoon .
the Ontario
the Act , the restructuring regional - LE refusal of the government 500,000 the privatization Ottawa as city bilingual - Government Position of the Federation of the communities French and accadienne
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , I wish you read a letter expressed to the honorableTony Captain , Minister of the Foreign municipal and the the Tourism the the Ontario .
i quote :
Mr. the calculation ,
i embassy by the through the the media , the blood government had chosen to the not give the status bilingual the Canadian new accommodation the Ottawa , regroupera11 municipalities existing .
the Federation of the communities French and broaden the the Canada . the actions , the 7 December last , and it synth?tise very well , banned benefiting the Laurendeau the Ottawa .
the result , he is giving the the subsequent .
i share of principles and the feelings views by the Federation .
in the the parliamentary speaking , he is very important to me to tireless in a city the respect and individual my French tongue .
he is also very vital that I can I feel the I in the capital national .
i hope that the question of the unilinguisme the Ottawa become . This a misunderstanding the Canadian the Canadian and press .
i would please the front I offer on this issue .
honourable senators , I would suggest to support the principle expressed by the Federation of the communities French and broaden the the Canada , the the concept of the respect to Ottawa . the two languages official .
the bill to the restructuring regional - Conformity refusal of contempt record Ottawa City bilingual
the Honourable Colin Kenny :
honourable senators , I speak today , the Canadian the linguistic the Canadian initiatives the Ottawa .
in quality of resident of Ottawa , the senator , the Ontario and the English , I am I , honourable the the subject of the question of the language in the new accommodation the Ottawa deaths of the Bank , the transcript the Order of 1 January 2001 .
the the time at the Ottawa . the city record bilingual .
our country . the Official Languages , and the motion . " the natural that the capital the bilingual , but only because the Canadian and francophones live in the region , but also because the Canadian initiatives should be the governing the Canadian psyche the the country in the whole .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the senator Kenny :
the Laurendeau not a the way a involve in the region . Ottawa .
he has the Canadian the history and should be guaranteed in the future of the region .
the said , from the Canadian new accommodation deaths of the Bank and the city of Hull accueilleront jointly the Olympics the Canadian Francophonie , the year 2001 .
the fact , the region . Ottawa - Hull screening the control of the provinces , he not . the natural that the status bilingual the Canadian city of Ottawa , recognized the the level provincial .
in the report , Mr. Glen Shortliffe that the Canadian initiatives the Ottawa is a provoking particular and recommend that the new accommodation the Ottawa , the seeds city bilingual by the bill and offer the the services in the two languages official when the situation . relevant to the
the province . Main the majority of the advice Mr. Shortliffe , but it has chosen to the not be the Canadian this proposal .
the citizens of Ottawa and the the Canada want and should get the assurance that Ottawa will record bilingual when will be the Bank .
in quality of the Minister , Mr. Harris must recognize the importance of the Canadian Ottawa . city bilingual .
he must be the Canadian leadership in the matter , to the Ottawa . city bilingual and eliminate . part of uncertainty .
the bill to the in politics of the agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
the reasons of the forbearance for the study , by section
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , the committee , the business foreign appear , later today , a report on the bill to the C - 4 , the Canadian and the implementation of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil .
my different included in the fact the Canadian the comit?du 7 December , the Canadian page 11 .
the the Hon. the
the senator Grafstein :
the the honourable senators , the the honourable senators , finding complete and they will then eat the the objections .
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the motion of the Canadian and statements ; it is the not the time , to the the UN the Canadian and reports .
the senator Grafstein :
honourable senators , since the not me give not the opportunity to take the honourable the the reading of the report , I have thought that I could use of the Canadian and statements of senators , to the reasons of my forbearance .
visitors in Gallery
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I would draw the presence in our gallery of some visitors in Gallery .
they are useful by the Honourable Senator Wilson .
we are hoping the welcome to the Senate . the Canada .
he is the well . delegation of 10 experts russes the future of the federal and some government regional the Canadian Federation ; it . the the African in various areas of the business related to the credits mortgage .
they come to complete a period of training the three weeks , the in our system Canadian of credit hypoth?caire .
we are hoping the welcome to the Senate . the Canada .
business routine
the Senate . the Senate
tabling of the rectitude the the intent of the honourable the Canadian condition of the people disabilities
the Honourable M. Robertson :
honourable senators , I wish to a little feuillet entitled : " Guide the the intent of the honourable the Canadian condition of the people handicapp?s the , and I ask the the Clerk of the materials the the Editor the the honourable .
... French ...
the Quebec
the advice school language of Modification the the article 93 the Canadian Constitution , p the the Prime report of the committee Joint Special
the Honourable Lucie pin :
honourable senators , pursuant to the article 104 the the Rules and the Senate , I have the honour to table the report of the committee Joint Special the the article 93 the Canadian Act constitutional the 1867 , the the system school of the Quebec , report , the Estimates incurred by the committee to the years of the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament .
the application tabled under the Canadian Act , the Transportation the the Canada During some carriers air enhancing the salaries and the agreements , with Earl - Introduction of the second report of the committee
the Honourable Lise Bacon , Chair of the committee on the Canadian and Communications and the communication , the the report following :
the Thursday 9 December 1998
the Committee on the Canadian and Communications and the the communication the the honour to present its
REPORT REPORT
your Committee , the the summer authorized by the Senate . p.m. October 1998 , to the to the make the , pursuant to the rule 47 ( 5 ) the Canadian Act , the Transportation the the Canada , the application tabled the this chamber , at September 1998 , nowhere some carriers air enhancing and some people to negotiate and the agreements , with Earl , the date the report final , the motion annex? the the present report .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
French BACON
( the text of the report found in Printed the the Journals of the Senate . today huip. 258 . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the ?
the senator Bacon :
honourable senators , pursuant to the article 97 ( 3 ) the the Rules , I move that the report be recorded the the Order of the Order of the " the next sitting of the Senate .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Bacon , the study of the report is placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
the Act , and the implementation of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
report of the committee
the Honourable Peter A . Stollery , the Canadian the committee on the Canadian and business foreign , the the report following :
the Thursday 9 December 1998
the Committee on the Canadian and business foreign the the honour to present its
fifth REPORT
your Committee , which has been examined the Telecommunications the bill C - 4 , the fact the in the Canadian the Agreement agreement between the government . the Canada , the governments of the members of the Agency spatiale European , the government . the Japan , the government . the Federation of Russia and the government . the United - United the North the Canadian cooperation respecting the Canadian Station spatiale international civil and retired the the changes related to the other Acts , the , pursuant to the Order of Reference of the 1998 1 December 1998 , examined obedience bill to the and the fact , report . amendment .
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . third time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Stollery , the third reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting of the Senate . )
bill to the Canadian 99 on the implementation of inclusion of Tax Conventions
report of the committee , the business foreign
the Honourable Peter A . Stollery , the Canadian the committee on the Canadian and business foreign , the the report following :
the Thursday 9 December 1998
the Committee on the Canadian and business foreign the the honour to present its
SIXI?ME REPORT
your Committee , which has been examined the Telecommunications the bill S - 4 , the Republic of the one would , the the conventions and the the protocoles agreements of the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgarian , the Portugal , the Ouzb?kistan , the Jordan , the Japan and the Luxembourg , in the Canadian avoid the Republic Republic and the prevention the avoidance tax . the Canadian tax on the income , the , pursuant to the Order of Reference of the 1998 24 November 99 , examined obedience bill to the and the fact , report . amendment .
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . third time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Stollery , the third reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting of the Senate . )
internal Economy , Budgets and Administration
introduction of the second report of the committee
the Honourable Rompkey Rompkey , the Canadian the committee Standing the Canadian Economy Economy , the the Economy , the the board , the report following :
the Thursday 9 December 1998
the Committee on the Canadian Economy Economy , the the Economy , the the board . the honour to table the
REPORT REPORT
your Committee audit now , a study of the situation budget of the committee , the Senate .
your Committee recommends that the , notwithstanding the Procedural Guidelines the funding of the committee , the Senate , for the budget of Committee Covenant the the year financial 99 - 2000 , the " the Committee of the Economy Economy , approved by the - the , your Committee . the power to liberate the chamber , 10 February 2000 . 6 / 12 , the fund guaranteed .
the two rare the this recommendation . " ( Deputy the budget submitted by the Comit?s the the Transportation and Communications the their study of the application under the the rule 47 ( 5 ) the Canadian Act , the Transportation the the Canada , the the amount of Thursday 900 $ ; and ii ) : budget submitted by the Committee of the Aboriginal Peoples the their study on the self government aboriginal , the the amount of 14 750 $ .
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when the report be the way in suggesting ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Rompkey , the report is recorded the the Order of the Order of the next sitting of the Senate . )
the Canadian the regulatory
introduction of the Prime report of the committee Joint Committee
the Honourable Andr Hervieux - Payette :
honourable senators , I have the honour to present the Prime report of the committee Joint Committee of the Canadian the regulatory to the Hon. the Canadian referred Standing Senate quorum ) and the Estimates suppress the the years of the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report found to the Journals of the Senate . today , the motion
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Hervieux - Payette , the study of the report is placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
god and the Canadian visit the the children
tabling of the Prime report of the committee Joint Special
the Honourable Landon Pearson :
honourable senators , pursuant to the article 104 the the Rules and the Senate , I have the honour to present the Prime report of the committee Joint Special the Canadian Access and the right to visit the the children , the issue of the Estimates encourues for the first session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament .
business foreign
notice of Motion to the cultivation the committee to stand the date of thirteen the the report final the the study on the Canadian amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty the the Atlantic North
the Honourable Peter A . Stollery :
honourable senators , I give notice that , Monday the 13 December 1998 , I move :
that the Honourable the the levels adopted by the Senate . Thursday p.m. October 1998 , the 1998 17 November 99 , the Committee on the Canadian and business foreign , though the review the in the report of Korea to the Canada : 1 ) the Canadian amendment brought to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty the the Atlantic North ( NATO ) and the the role of the Canada in the NATO been the disbanding of the tremendous the Warsaw , the Canadian reseller the Canadian War cold and the the coming recent in the NATO the Canadian Hungarian , the Canadian Poland and the Canadian Republic tch?que ; and 2 ) the the peace - the peace , particularly the ability to the Canada . there to the the auspices of the important what body international the the Canada . the , the technical , to the report final the the most later , 10 March 2000 ;
that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the premature the the results of the study contained in the report final , and the date , the 31 March 2000 ;
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practical consequently , the table the report of the the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate . " no , and that obedience report be deposited have been tabled the the Senate .
the Ontario
the Act , the restructuring regional - Conformity refusal of the government 500,000 the feasibility of Stamp to the make the Ottawa . city bilingual - Notice of inquiry
the Honourable Marie - P .
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Monday 13 December 1998 , I give the attention of the Senate on the decision of the government . the Ontario , not . the one recommendation to the make the Ottawa . city bilingual , his restructuring proposed .
the Senate
notice of Motion confirmant the Orders of Royal Assent
leave having been granted , back to the Notice of Motion :
the Honourable Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , pursuant to the GST 56 ( 1 ) and notwithstanding ( 1 ) ( Deputy of the Rules , I give notice by the present the near , I move :
that the Senate . the Canada says the Orders of Royal Assent to the Senate , such as it is described by the authorities in order Parliamentary Norman Wilding and Philip Laundy : " - borne pratiqu?e the the Canada is the the ages the apparenter the most of the distinct the .
that the Senate reaffirmed the right sovereign of Her Majesty , such as it is set in the Act constitutional the 1867 , and the the authority to Her the authority to procedures parliamentarians and the bills of the flag , the " and Senators or adopted in the two Houses of the Parliament ;
that the Senate , in the the House of Her Majesty authority to Royal Assent , states the right constitutional ancestral as the Canadian the Parliament , convergent the Senate . the three branches the the Parliament unnecessary the in the the Parliament of the Canada ;
that the Senate states the right to the Parliament , the " lex parliamenti the , the bill ancestrale the body that the consent Alaska is required to the study by the Parliament of the bill to the or any Rules Parliamentary the commerce the prerogative of Her Majesty ;
that the Senate states that the Orders Parliamentary the " by a member for the the consent Alaska is the table the this effect of Motion to question to Her Majesty , the the topic of the other forms of request of agreement Alaska concerning the access to the Minister of the ministers in the fiscal the people responsibilities event ;
that the Senate states the requirement of the the consent of Her Majesty before the Senate into a bill to the the affectera the prerogative Royal , the the example of the consent Alaska the the summer , by the Queen Elizabeth II , the Royal Assent Bill , 1967 , the the summer the " the House of the Lords the the U - Parliamentary by the Grand Chancellor Gardiner the the reading of the second reading of the bill to the , the 2,500 March 1967 :
the answer Seigneuries , I am responsible for Majesty Majesty the Queen of going to the the Queen Majesty , with the exception of the subject of the bill to the , hear , to his prerogative and the public , in the extent the people are carried by the bill to the , the Canadian section of the Parliament , the purpose of the bill to the . "
the the the summer speech , weeks . later , the 17 April 1967 , the Canadian House of the House of the U - Parliamentary by the Hill General Wilfrid Elwyn Jones :
the I am responsible for the Queen of going to the the Queen Majesty , with the exception of the subject of the bill to the , hear , to his prerogative and the public , in the extent the people are carried by the bill to the , the Canadian section of the Parliament , the purpose of the bill to the .
i have the honour to propose the the bill to the Senate now read a second time . "
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Transportation
the divesting of fate public , The divestiture of the pier the the Island Thetis the Canadian bunch Indian the the Island Kuper
the Honourable Pat Carney :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate , the the I have given that the
the 18 October , I have written to the Minister of the Transport to me eat , the decision of the Department of light of harbour public . the Island Thetis , the Canadian Coast the Canadian British - British , the Canadian collective aboriginal street the the Island Kuper , the subject the home goes .
this decision has been a subject concern among the spirit of Thetis , since the pier is their only way of access the sea .
the political the the Department of the Transport to the ali?ner the docks public , the communities in which they will find .
the " the Fifth that this policy is still in effect .
the Leader of the government . the Senate might - the " to the knowledge , the government , where CPAs the the docks public . the Island , a bunch aboriginal the one another Island , before the entire claims land aboriginal not be dealt in this area ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I thank her the senator , I have given that the this issue today , the
i neglected also that it . Putting the the the concerns of prononciation the the name of the band Indian .
the senator Carney :
welcome , honourable senators ,
he breaking as P?n?lope .
he is a the Penelakut .
the senator Boudreau :
i thank the one time , Senator .
the following the information that I have glan?s , the band the bravery the May of the public to the book the talking the senator and the the discussions have been amorc?es of the band and the Department of the Transport .
the Canadian , the Canadian and r?sidants the said that they will opposed to this approach , in the meaning that they wished to the the least express their point of the .
i believe that the , the Canadian , the the intervention , a meeting is now scheduled of the band and the r?sidants the the Island and , by way of determining , the negotiations with the band the Penelakut not have not completed .
we are these discussions between the r?sidants and the band will the deal of the .
the senator Carney :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate might - the " to the information . response to my letter of the 18 October the the Minister ?
if the Department of the Transport , et the political , a change that he not the ever announced - the it isolera the small communities and paralysera the dark economic , because each from the subject that a method .
if the Department recognize the control of the pier the one from the one another Island , the dark economic the Canadian first Islander the in the paralys?e .
he I would be the the Leader of the government to the the Minister of the Transport and answer to my letter of the 18 October .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I do see no - secondary the information with the Minister for the the the " respond to the letter of the Honourable Senator .
the Defence down
the problems m?caniques the the frigates the enemy
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I wish question . the " the Leader of the government to the Senate .
four frigates Canadian of enemy the blood . the pannes the g?n?rateur .
he is the $ four or five years , we have had a avalanche the problems similar and we spent the the amounts huge to the truth the case and do the repair to the
that the the government to the four frigates the are now , outside service ?
while the I have the honourable , we , we , the face the reasons of the frigates usher the have the same problems and , the case afforded , the the very the Port of feels the the frigates , the Canadian Coast . , the Canadian Coast Fishermen , or the two ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I have the the information on only the four frigates the enemy the the senator has spoken .
the problems m?caniques the the frigates are limited to the g?n?rateurs 2004 and the not to the citizenry the propulsion .
however , a commission technical exhaustive is the years .
the the provisions the short and the long term are now implemented in the .
he is the hope that the pannes the the kind . the reproduiront the , because of equipment and the frigates sanctions , the
the senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , I have my doubts that the above .
we have been the target of many criticism of the government . our allies to the foreign to the Canadian the ability to the frigates the not have sail the full skating the reason , the the problem .
we know , the the frigates sanctions . " , except that he and lack of the the potential 40 per - and ability , the knowledge of Replacement ship Motor and violating .
the the view of these two major problems , he is difficult to say , in mind the serious , the the frigates sanctions , the
the replacement of the fleet the helicopters Sea King - Conformity at the the announcement
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , the Minister can the the us that if the prior our back in February , he is a one informed the the acquisition of Sea consortium ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I do I do today , no immediate the the time when the acquisition of these restrictions will announced .
he is a the one priority of the Prime rank to the Minister of the National Defence , and that the Canadian many senators , members .
we hope all the this announcement will the make the one future future .
the senator Forrestall :
we look the future future since the 1 792 days , and we do we not heard the northern .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , if the Honourable Senator Forrestall to take the honourable , we will the editorials .
the senator Forrestall :
the s?anteur Boudreau :
the senator Graham :
hear !
the senator Boudreau :
the answer to the question , the forces personnel have initiated , the the years of the period of the talking , a number of the new programs important .
in uncertainty the new search consortium , we have the Canadian and progress in the the concerns of the program , there was the helicopters the research and the search , the subamendment , maintenance and the improvement of the Income the living and the the conditions of life of the military them , the .
i understand the impatience the the senator to the respect to the program of learning of the helicopters consortium , but I have a hope that the efforts diligents will shareholders in a very near future .
the business Social , the Science and the technology
the bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the the documents electronic - Conformity Opposition the the government albertain
the Honourable Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , my question . question to the chairman of the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology .
the following the the exchange the the in the chamber , yesterday , the comments of the letter that the government albertain the letter , the 7 December , the the chairman of the committee , the government albertain I was informed today , the the not had not been invited to appear before the committee to the subject of the bill to the C - 6 .
in the justice for the chairman of the committee , I must say that I believe that the government albertain not the not asked to appear , but the only sent a letter .
he is a probably more , the one lack of communication that the bad will .
however , the concerns albertaines the the missiles in the the areas of federal Provincial remain .
when the chairman of the committee will the honourable , today , the " the Senate , the the bill to the C - 6 , responding to the the concerns that the government albertain outlining in his letter ?
the Honourable Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I contend the Canadian . the the senator Roche the likelihood two comments .
the Canadian first , as I , I explained yesterday , I thought that the government . the Alberta , the guest the evidence before the committee , the so I have the way due to say , and I just the comments the Hansard - that I finish whether it will the Canadian Privy the the committee .
in the , the government . the Alberta , contrary to the Canadian the Ontario , not the not asked to appear before the committee .
he we , respectfully a memorial - and we in the positive a place . there has both days , but it is the not asked to appear .
the committee has the - be done a mistake , not invitant not the representatives of the province , appear , but they have certainly was the transition as witnesses . the same asked to appear .
the same , all the committee which I have defended the Senate . , thrown a good favourable the the representatives of the governments provincial .
the other issue , the motion , the motion of order constitutional .
i do the issues . in my remarks today , the
i will continue to the I have said yesterday , the motion ? " - that the the members of the committee . When the evidence of expert the the people convinced that the bill to the motion consistent the Canadian Constitution .
we do we therefore not dealt the question in our report , because the us believe that the bill to the motion consistent the Canadian Constitution and that the evidence presented the the committee abound strongly in the same sense .
the Environment
the announcement by the Alberta , the intent of Recombinant the treatment of pollutants dangerous imported the the centre of treatment of Swan Hills - Government Position of the government
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , the government . the Alberta , announced a change the the political , the Canadian and effect on the centre of treatment of Swan Hills .
this amendment to the the centre of treatment of Swan Hills the import and the subject of the dumping bruts , there was the the wastes and the other contaminants , it , the the one assessment environmental the necessary .
honourable senators , the business of skilled the centre of treatment of the dumping not the not a matter . tache .
it has been the " the country . fuites and the explosions and it has been appropriately contempt of pollution .
it is the not throw the major rejets the dioxine and the furane the the are manufactured the , the number years , rejets the people caused the the problems of health , the people living in implementing and the people infected the poissons and the wildlife .
the business . was condamn?e the one chooses the 625 $ $ to this pattern .
the United - United the funeral the Income the dumping products to the foreign .
obviously , the change the political the the government . the Alberta , the the impact of the the limit not to the Alberta as the dumping the question can be exist in Alberta , the other provinces , the other ports or the be televised the accident , the the highlights the case of security and the health of the Canadian , equal the long - the roadblocks the routing .
after this announcement , the government . the Canada suffer - the the need to amend the Government of the Income the dumping , the way general ?
the Leader of the government can the the authority to the Minister of the Environment if it has asked the meeting of a test environmental federal ?
it is the make the that the concerns . only the province of the Alberta .
obviously , the province . - the not take the Canadian to a moment assessment .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the decision on the the treatment of pollutants dangerous the the facilities the Swan Hills is now , the study by the government . the Alberta .
the decision on the the Income the dumping dangerous the the Canada is certainly be consistent the the standards Canadian , the Canadian exports and the Income the dumping dangerous , but it is the same the the individual the Canadian province of the Alberta .
in the , the other provinces and territories importent now , the dumping of the country .
i know what is , specifically , the Government of the Minister of the Environment the the respect to the assessment environmental the talking the senator Spivak .
i bring to his question to the Minister , the , responding the week next .
the senator Spivak :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate . " that the Income the dumping dangerous is the the individual the the provinces and that the transportation of pollutants dangerous the motion also .
i do I do some of the well , the answer to the Leader of
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the regulatory the the export and the the Income the the dumping dangerous are a field of responsibility and the federal officials .
these provisions will soon . the Canadian Tax .
the amendment of the licensing of whales the the facilities in the to the provinces will deal of the dumping from the one another country . the the individual the Canadian province , the question , the
the senator Spivak :
honourable senators , the transportation interprovincial is subject to the regulatory the the export and the the Income .
this is the transportation interprovincial the dumping the " interest .
the Leader states that the the not . not a responsibility provincial , but a responsibility federal ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , for the import or Asian pareils wastes , the facilities in the need to follow the the requirements down by the regulatory federal - and BOVAR dangerous .
this regulation includes the the provisions related to the health and the Canadian Transportation to the treatment of these wastes .
the treatment the the trade , the initial it is the motion authorized by the fishing the seaway that the the fishing the province .
a number of the provinces have the Act , leaving , the the facilities the importent the the dumping dangerous .
the senator Spivak :
honourable senators , the government . the Canada . lead the the not the us not devenions the tabling of pollutants dangerous the the world world ?
he is a the events chemical the natural the the dioxines and the the furanes .
as the RCAF the legislation that we have strengthened recently , we seek the intrinsic these sites and the " and hate .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , he not the not the question that the government . the Canada . inqui?terait the one scenario the us deviendrions the tabling of pollutants dangerous the the world world .
the opinion of the Minister of the time , this is that the regulatory existante we will the problem . in the way get .
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis in the c?r?aliculteurs the the West - R?ponse the the government
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate and the Act , Asian that poverty the farmers .
the negotiations the the Organization World of the trade , journals not have not the Canadian and results positive .
the Minister of the Agriculture , Lyle Vanclief , the little of hope that the c?r?aliculteurs Canadian embassies soon . reduction of the grants international .
i , I came to the same conclusion , I have talked with the the representatives of the European , the the United - United and the other countries .
the committee Standing the Canadian House of the House of the Canadian and hearings in the West .
i have attended the the hearings held in Estevan and the Regina .
in the , the Minister of the Agriculture the Canadian Saskatchewan I was asked the the help to present a statement to the committee .
the farmers , the are in a situation . precarious , looking , the way . ?motive , the the , the somewhat a the the pain .
i know that the committee , the House of the House still , and very carefully .
i was proud of the House of the the committee for the people have listened and Haitian have the .
the Leader believes - the , in the the member of the cabinet , the the cabinet still the farmers and the one sympathetic careful to their pleas the the assistance , the people are in full crisis ?
the the announcement in the the Canada Mr. Milne , a member of the House of the House , would organizing a grand to help the farmers , the Toronto .
he is impossible that the people . understand that the crisis in the area crop .
the cabinet is the the " the pain ?
the Minister is the the Burmese the suggestion the message from the the corner - the ?
the the speech on the subject . was given by the the honourable friends of the side and they have been the so vigorous that those of the side - the .
is the the the somewhat a pain ?
the senator Ghitter :
the , they not listening not .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I have already done , the the Minister of the Agriculture the the concerns expressed in the part of our debate this , the summer initiated by the Honourable Senator Gustafson .
the will close to the Canadian the work of the committee , the House of the House .
as the Honourable Senator the the said , the members of the committee . the not physically their efforts and the report states the their work will take , the motion clear , the " the serious by the Minister and the the chamber . the cabinet .
the person will be the report be introduced in a matter reasonable .
the senator Gustafson :
honourable senators , I have the labour a previous the press legal that the program of fighting against the crisis crop . a failure full and that the Ontario and the Saskatchewan , in personal .
we do we are the few days of the next millennium , the Canadian next generation , the the next century .
we go to the Canadian crisis and we in discussing been a year and processes .
yet , the not the more the no action , operating .
i do speak out negative enough to state of the situation .
he is important that the Prime Minister , the Minister of the Agriculture and the cabinet begrudging .
i can say , fear of the wrong that the Senate . listened .
i believe that the committee on the Canadian the Agriculture and the the forestry the course " the one way constructive .
he is a date of the so , the will respond .
this is that the important , the .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the Honourable Senator , which the two provinces , the said that insatisfaites the the program current the protection of the income crop , but to the the grounds , readers .
the government 500,000 belief that the program . was not enough generous to his farmers and the person in d?duire that he jugeait that a too much part of the credits had been earmarked the .
the ministers federal and provincial and the Agriculture come . That the meeting of meeting of Toronto .
this issue was the the Order of the Order and , the my opinion , the motion of the the election some of the statements .
the Minister has agreed that the process should be granted and not . to the in the time that the conference .
the I , the committee , the Agriculture the the Commons could help the way positive and substantial the Canadian demands that recognize the government , and the provinces .
answers delayed the Canadian and the control
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I have the the answers to the issues raised in the Senate . 24 November 99 by the honourable Tkachuk and Stratton regarding the cost of the program of control of the weapons the gun and the one issue raised in the Senate . 25 November 99 by the senator Forrestall , the subject of the replacement of the squirrel the helicopters Sea King and the the request of a copy of the purpose of the needs .
the Justice
the cost of the program of control of the weapons the gun - Government of the the Minister
( response to the issues raised by the s?nateursDavid Tkachuk and Terry Stratton : 24 November 99 . )
the figure of 85 million . $ not . not the only estimate the by the Minister Rock .
this figure is the fact addressed the the information that the Minister Rock has made to a committee , the House of the House of April 1995 .
the documents , the thought the cost of the control of the weapons the gun to give years , 184 million . $ .
Les85 million . $ were required to the the system . the .
the rest covers the use of the former system ( C - 17 ) and the seaway the the new system .
in a bill passed by the Parliament , 1994 , the new components the summer ajout?es such as the opinion Constitution , the joint and a stamp tough the the background of the applicants the fishing .
after the Canadian law after the motion , but the the the system that was devised and the in politics , the provinces , the Alberta , the Canadian Saskatchewan and the the Manitoba , the the Territories the the North - Western and the Yukon . announced that they not apply not the program in their board .
all these events . the grimper the cost of selected and the implementation of inclusion of the system .
the Minister of the Justice states been 1998 , the cost of selected and the implementation of inclusion of the system , whatever be the 85 million . $ , are things ?120 million . $ .
with the implementation of inclusion of the new syst?mele 1 December 1998 , our obligations provisions the the former system . largely decreased , the as the cost of developing and the implementation of inclusion .
finally , we approach that the cost to the board from the Canadian Act , the weapons the gun should be comparable to those of the disadvantages of the national such as the Transportation of the passeports or the Board of the property spark of the Canada .
we in this way to the past simple the the negotiations with the provinces , the subject of the Mod?le the benefits of the the reserves the cash payments to the authorities , the government , the the CHST the the cost administrative .
the fact that we doubled the Canadian and problems with the implementation of inclusion is the the area public .
we have asked to a home of expert - serving whose the make a study to us to the basis of reasons of our difficulties of bonds and the the solutions possible .
it has the in June the one of the exception the Canadian problems associated the the great many of errors in the CCN constituents to be treated by the system , the Canadian ability to the system and the Canadian and problems of productivity the Iraqi the our accounting administrative .
the report retirements also that the problems met at the reading of the implementation of inclusion were normal to a business of this dispute .
we have devised a plan of action to respond to the difficulties .
the fund guaranteed to the enforcement of the program feel the the Approbation effective the the bills ( AEP ) the the Council of the Treasury , pursuant to his political the the great the Canadian the state .
the year ending , and 1995 - 96 and 1998 - 99 , the program . used the envelope meeting , the AEP .
the resolution of the problems associated the implementation of the Canadian the program optimistic , the above increase the many of need relating to the board of the program , the years of the fiscal 1998 - 2000 .
the Minister of the Justice and the Centre Canadian of the weapons the gun wish to the program with great , 2003 the limits approved by the Council of the Treasury .
the the fund amounts not have the octroy?s the the program . the consent of the Council .
all the parties wish to the program , ex?cut? the manner effective in spite of these constraint .
the Defence down
the replacement of the squirrel the helicopters Sea King - Government ask the body of the purpose of the needs
( response to a question raised by the senator J . Michael Forrestall : 25 November 99 )
as the calculation the the reference to many occasions , the aircraft Sea King be a replaced .
in the , the calculation the Fifth that the Telecommunications the the helicopters marine is the first priority . the Canadian equipment and that a strategy of learning was in the Canadian and the
the purpose of the needs . will not tabled the the time , this , this chamber .
as the calculation the the indicated physicians , in the Canadian the purpose of the needs , several questions are being examined and the other departments consulted .
the ice will be informed the the issues will r?solues .
visitor the Gallery
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , before the move the the Order of the Order , I wish attention your attention of the presence of a visitor the Gallery in our galleries .
he is a Mr. Blair Wappel , the motion of the Law of the nation crie Enoch .
the the name of all the honourable , I would wish to welcome to the Senate .
on business orders
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
third reading
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Kirby , seconded by the Honourable Senator Bryden , seconded the Canadian third reading of the bill to the C - 6 , the motion to facilitate and the use of Trade Ministerial the virtue of information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of the coverage to bring or put the the information and the the sophisticated and the Act , the Act , and the the Canada , the Act , the Statutory Instruments and the Act , the review of the legislation , such as amended ;
the Act , would the amendment of the Honourable Senator Murray , P , seconded by the Honourable Senator Doody , the the bill to the not be not now read a third time , but that he be amended , the the article 7 , the Canadian page 7 :
the motion by deleting the the lines 19 , 23 ;
the Honourable Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I wish to the Canadian amendment to the bill to the proposed yesterday , the senator Murray in the very plaisant Finance .
the roots NDP - ?cossaises the the Cape - Cape are well evident to each time that he speaks the honourable the the Senate .
i do I was the intent of ?galer the ability oratoire and I am talking . the comment the TAGS the the comments .
this is much more easily .
he has asked why we have the Canadian protection of the information personal should be ?teindre20 years after the death .
as it . the importance yesterday , it is a source of concern to a number of people , particularly the the figures public , he .
i know the senator Murray has been and I understand that he can be stated in the subject .
when this issue . was raised in the committee , the members Liberal the the committee was satisfied that the committee would have the the adoptait this amendment .
we estimions that is an a mistake the the the us we heard the little of evidence to the subject .
it much with the amendment relates to the area of the health , we have passed Tuesday , the reading of the report .
we have heard a great many of witnesses express their views to the Canadian this amendment .
we have the effect heard a wide range of witnesses the many hours during the
as I , I said yesterday , in the Canadian health , the committee was the opinion unanimous that the amendment was the report .
we are so delighted that the Senate . the report last .
the question that the senator Murray has raised last report on the presence , in the bill to the C - 6 , the one clause , the to the Canadian remove , 20 years after the Late the one person , the protection of the information personal assured by the bill to the .
the Canadian and few evidence that we have heard the the subject , the us . " that a rule similar to 20 years there in the other Acts , the Canadian Act , the protection of the information personal and the Act , the Archives Finance . the Canada .
we have also heard that is not . not as if the in order to the bill to the , the scenario automatically the all the CCN the information on a person 20 years after his death .
as the door - speaking of Industry Canada . the fact out in their schedule the the committee , the bill to the not deeply not changed the " the right to the respect to the life private the one person 20 years after his death .
he does the communication of information only to the purpose of which the data the summer Whelan array , and only to the purpose of which the human would have the loans to the the " in the Canadian raising the start .
we have also heard a specialist the federal - Conformity the Canadian life private , Mr. Ian Lawson , the the vehemence a point that no , Senator Murray or , the same not had heard before the " whether the the long a principle legal recommendation that the not be to apply to the Canadian a person a time that it is Mrs. .
the border Mr. Lawson was interesting .
he the judgment on the point recommendation that the not be to the consent a time that the motion deceased .
it seemed may a problem practice except , as the senator Murray and I , he was the out , the the motion to the time , that the one of expression the problem of the heirs and the the members of the family .
nor the senator Murray or , not have constant . the negative the the testimony Mr. Lawson .
a place witness expert on the protection of the information personal , Valerie Steeves , the fact , well . interesting .
the the it was explained the the bill to the committee , the Canadian and House and that it admired the us , and the the it ruined been mothballed in the bill to the , the " is that the senator Murray addressed the question with the Canadian week , the this issue . " was never came to the spirit .
the not the one has interrog?e the the subject .
the question . was never been raised by the people from the the case .
this is the then , the honourable senators , a question of the witnesses who have appeared before the committee . was or the reason they had thought .
this is a clause , the very in the other Acts , the Canadian Act , the protection of the information personal .
honourable senators , he has struck the Canadian portion of the members of the committee , the I - the , the , jointly the the work of the I spoke yesterday , the Canadian need to the government entreprenne a strong review of the Act , the protection of the information personal to the the follow the manner effective , the provisions that implementation of the Canadian law C - 6 , the area private , a part of this study should send include a review of the alleged rule of the 20 years and that this should be done . the proper and quickly .
we have esteemed that the Act simply the bill to the C - 6 and the culmination such what the various other Acts federal , the jurisdictional a double the Canadian protection of the area private and the government , the the previous was in the bosom by the differences between the bill to the C - 6 and the Act , the protection of the information personal .
those of the us who is contemplated the the side of the majority of the committee . favourite deal this issue in a time .
in the other words , the changes made to the Act , the protection of the information personal and the Canadian Act , the Archives Finance . the Canada should the be in the time .
honourable senators , the motion of key comment that I have the make the the senator Murray .
i am the agreement with him on the question that he has raised and the Hon. the .
the majority of the members of the committee , the I - the , let the the motion of the Canadian response .
it should be ready when we parlerons the the changes to the Act , the protection of the information personal the northern remote .
therefore , honourable senators , the I , the not . not the time , we to this amendment , the so , and the this amendment . " questions any issue .
this , I ask problem , the motion of choice of the time .
i hope that we undergo the new the question , the controversial , the Act , the protection of the information personal territorial the the committee , the pressure the the last , the the years of the next month .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , if no other senator . wish to the honourable , the vote the Act , would the amendment proposed by the Honourable Senator Murray .
that the honourable senators , are in favour of the motion of amendment please , that there .
the the Hon. the
yes .
the Hon. the Speaker :
that the honourable senators , are against please , that the .
the the Hon. the
the .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the my opinion , the only the yeas .
the two senators , the Chair surveys :
the Hon. the Speaker :
the whips I have informed that the " the was heard the the the bells the report to pendant30 minutes .
the honourable senators , the people of the ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Hon. the Speaker :
( the motion of amendment , and the the Hon. the motion defeated . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed and the bill to the , read a third time , is passed . )
jean the the Throne
motion of the Canadian the Adresse the answer to Continued the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Jeffrey , seconded by the Honourable Senator Furey , seconded the the adoption of a Adresse the Governor General of Gouverneure general , on the the speech that contemporaries the speech in the the opening of the second session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament . - ( 7
e on the Canadian resuming the the debate adjourned .
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , I have listened the speech , the Throne with the .
i am farmer , as the were my father and I , the father , and as the are my small - child , the future of Bills generation of farmers in our families .
my great - Polish , the was out of Sweden , 1905 to the establishing the the Canada as farmer , was very proud of the Canadian .
i must say , in turn of Prince , the us , the farmers , we are the the people credit .
however , these games days , I have seen the the men pleurer , I have I race the pooling , I have I heard that the the was d?moralisant the have the the correct and the us explain their situation .
the women , by the , the many of the difficulty the subject frankly , the situation despair in the the very their family .
i know that the honourable senators , in the people as I heard the farmers to the committee , their problems and the Canadian state of their situation .
i do that the Honourable Senator Fairbairn Fairbairn , the case of Deputy - chair of the committee , the Agriculture , nodding the one sign the Canadian head .
this morning , we have heard the testimony of the producers of wheat unkind the the Alberta , the people Finance their problems .
i do take any changes to do this will now , the
honourable senators , I submit that the government , the Senate and the House of the House , the Prime Minister of the Canada and the people of the ability ignore the serious crisis which fiasco the world crop , it is a problem national serious to the country . world .
it affects not only the Saskatchewan , the Manitoba and the Alberta , but also the whole of the country .
the farmers . in schools - they have the difficulty ?
the , " I , the first , the clear and inquiring the the subject .
the producers of goods dairy and the volaille , and that the other , the in schools . " and we do we not to ?ter what the the Senate .
in the the producers of Grain , we have the Canadian and support .
the industry . the cattle the in housing . " .
the producers of Grain suffering . " because of the low cost of the events of basic .
the price not have been the so there .
recently , I have delivered a deep double the kind B . Wheat the the silo the Weyburn .
this is the not a good as the grain .
he was gel? to the Canadian ensemencement tardif have the the time humide .
this chargement the grain we , reported to the total 3600 $ gross .
the amount of the cheque was the 1 400 $ .
i would have said that he would receive a generation .
we go full of stories of the kind .
the price of the grain the summer . there .
the price of the oats is still piece of 40,000 cents yesterday .
the situation . is not also concerned , Saskatchewan , the the income to the " the point of the lower been 1933 .
these figures feel the the departments of the Agriculture .
we have a serious problem on the darkest .
the the fact , the government . the government , but only the price of the events of basic the left , but we know also the serious difficulties , including the the CHST the the rates of transportation of the freight .
the numerous occasions , the farmers have indicated that the third of the income from the Canadian grain the their grain recovered the costs of transportation of the grain to the foreign , because we are enclav?s .
we have heard that morning the producers of wheat unkind the the Alberta , which have raised the important issues relating to transportation of their grain .
i suppose that some of these changes to imposaient .
the elevator the grain the Macoum the summer ras? the the bulldozer .
i am trouvais the Miami the the time , that the I am piece of my little , son .
he has wanted to why I had ended to this .
the problem at a extent affective , because the the Prairies , the people have the usual the look a silo - elevator all the nine miles ; they are part of the d?cor .
the the view of the that , the the changes to imposaient .
i am the agreement .
however , these changes have been a required . differently .
i do I do embarrass the debate , and yet I must remember some of the program developed , the by the government Conservative to protect the farmers .
he is the in the Pension the assurance - income gross , the the benefits . was repetitive to us .
this is the senator Hays , if I do I understand , the " the failure to again again , the the us should we atteler the Canadian r?actualisation the the program of protection of the income .
our Agenda not the not perfect , but we must be defray the program areas of term " to go to the prior .
we are the - be all the blame , in a certain the .
we have had few good years , the years prompted us not we are not a souci?s the the problem and , the course , the matter of the important , the juguler the deficit of the time .
i believe that we recognize all the us were in the Canadian losing the control of the deficit .
however , some measures that we have failed to take the the respect to the Agriculture have the Canadian avoid the us do in the situation where we are now , the
honourable senators , it . brings to the program ACRA .
the government has developed . the money in the program , but it is operating not .
we have heard that the numerous occasions that he not carry not .
i can reappoint the the farmers who have received the the money , but who is have not have the receiving .
he is reform . program , scrutiny .
i believe that he is clear to all the the motion be .
the my opinion , a synthetic direct the capital would the Canadian good results , and the motion of opinion position by the the farmers to Regina and the elevator at the the meetings concerning I have attended .
it would have to the form of a payment to the acre .
the ones the the needs are the people pressants ?
he is the one problem crisis and the - the theory of the problems social .
some cases are too tragic to be racont?s .
the the people are concluded explain their situation in the meetings and the cloud the sanglots .
the matters and , the " Quit suicides would face account the Canadian crisis crop .
the farmers are the the people . proud .
the great - parents , gone the Russian with a single cow .
the " the age of 82 years , his great - far , the the cows .
it is the ever left the biblical forget that their first female the saved the life of the two boys and their the fishing the coming to the Canada .
the government has the the decisions serious the other and I think that he will be the the appropriate .
i would appreciate trust , the government . , the the the summer , and the first , the motion . the lore the media and the government to the situation .
the committee Standing the the other place . is shown very approachable the the evidence that he has heard the the subject .
the Minister of the Agriculture the Canadian Saskatchewan I was asked the the help to do its Finance the the committee Standing .
the members of the committee . listened carefully .
they will table a report , reflected , the the evidence that I am making today , the
i hope that the answer to positive to our farmers .
the problems social and the the impact of only on the families and the farm agricultural , but also on the whole of the community .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the time , the Honourable Senator Gustafson is elapsed .
the Honourable Senator the the Canadian leave of up ?
the senator Gustafson :
yes .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , the leave is the it leave ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Gustafson :
i wish to briefly the the impact of this situation on the communities and the the effects of the government positive that the government makes .
these people - that exists the the Employment .
they rely , the the tracteurs , the highways and the machinerie .
the Canadian community considerable the their work .
if the " transparency 1 $ in the area crop , this amount . multiplie by seven , but it is that a . the question .
i do I do the time , address a subject . important .
the contribution economic the the Agriculture is the third , the " the Canada .
the Agriculture Canadian exporters the tremendous returns to the Treasury .
we do we are to the lurch let this industry .
each senator has the responsibility , but only to the level national , but also in the region . the potential , the resulting the the the the government feels the the government positive to the help our farmers to short and the long term .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Kinsella , the the name of the senator LeBreton , the debate is adjourned . )
bill to the chronic the decision of some decisions medical
second reading of Final the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Carstairs , seconded by the Honourable Senator pin , seconded the Canadian second reading of the bill to the S - 2 , the chronic the decision of making medical legitimate respect to the treatment of survival and the the treatment of the pain . -
( the Honourable Senator Lavoie - Roux ) .
the Honourable Ione Christensen :
honourable senators , I rise to speak to support the bill to the S - 2 , the chronic the decision of making medical legitimate respect to the treatment of survival and the the treatment of the pain .
since 15 years , I have had the honour to be the main soignante , the first , the my parents , then , a very old friend , a enseignant , the not had not the family and the need to care deplore .
the the time when the three of the balance the point where they had need to care palliative and the Bureau , the pain , I was the human the confidence the the government that their supports were relentlessly .
in the three , the us we had the the discussions depth the the the provinces souhaitaient the federal - treatment of survival and the fight against the pain , then , their doctors to ensure the the the people supports the Indians in their will .
to the end , when the fight against the pain , the food and the hydratation artificielles are greatly to the I have been called for reaffirm their supports the provinces . was the in the Canadian the make .
in both the , I had a mandate , the and properly form , but , for these three of the I knew that the provinces wished and I have been to meet their supports .
that would the the past , I do I do the that ?
i have learned that the doctors and the staff infirmier h?sitaient the not . operation of the care of treatment of survival .
they were in a duty grise , which has opposed the subject of the bill to the .
we have put need to incarceration guidelines Finance , the program of awareness public and , particularly , the formation professional , care palliative .
the the approach to the new millennium , a great per - our population will need to care similar , and we must be prepared to fill the need .
i thank the senator Carstairs , the other senators , the leading to braquer the images the this issue .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable senators , this section remain name to the name of the senator Lavoie - Roux .
library of the Parliament
the Canadian the Prime report of the committee Joint Committee
the Senate proceeded to the study of the Prime report of the committee Joint Committee of the Library of the Parliament ( e the the committee on the report , the Senate . 8 December 1998 . - ( - ( Senator Robichaud , P ( - Acadie - Acadia ) ( .
the Honourable Louis J . Robichaud :
honourable senators , I move the adoption of the report .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is passed . )
official languages
the Canadian the Prime report of the committee Joint Committee
the Senate proceeded to the study of the Prime report of the committee Joint Committee of the Official Languages ( quorum ) , the " the Senate 8 December 1998 . - ( - ( Senator Losier - Cool ) .
the Honourable Rose - Marie Losier - Cool :
honourable senators , I move the adoption of the report .
the Honourable Serge Joyal ( His Honour the Speaker Acting Deputy :
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is passed . )
the Canadian the political Canadian antidrogues
motion During the formation of a committee on Special - Debate the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the Canadian motion of the Honourable Senator Nolin , seconded by the Honourable Senator Cohen :
that a committee Special the the Senate , set to the reassess the legislation and the political Canadian antidrogues , the remaining substantially the people of the basis of need offered the the various regions of the country , the particular , the the problems social benefits to the traffic and the the use of compliance uniform are the implications , the developing the the proposals for release any information on the Canadian political Canadian antidrogues and , finally , the devastating the the recommendations for the provinces , the adoption of a strategy antidrogues the " the point by the to the Canadian encouraging all the levels of the " work in close collaboration the Canadian reduction of the mischief linked to the consumer the Controlled uniform .
the the the the following the to the Canadian carriers the mandate , the the committee be authorized to :
the review the approach adopted by the government , for combat the consumer the Controlled uniform the the Canada , the effectiveness as a the deficit the effects of the consumer the stup?fiants and the extent in the Hon. the motion just ;
the developing a political national the reduction of the mischief to the harshness the impacts negative the Canadian products of compliance uniform the the Canada and to the the recommendations on the way of the this policy , including the possibility of Chartered before the the use and the abuse of compliance as a problem socio - sanitaire ;
the study of centrefolds the reduction of the mischief adopted by the other countries and determine , the the , would be , the the ports partially or assessments , the the Canada ;
the review the role and the obligations international the original the the Canada . " the the conventions the the United Nations the the stup?fiants , the Canadian Declaration Universal the the rights of the man and the other treaty related to the basis , these include the SLBA the other . the government , the the court convergence and the p?nalisation the the response to the international de ;
the CCN the effects of the fibre the Canadian health and to the question of the so , employment of political alternatives to the subject of the use of the fibre conduirait the one increase the the use and the the abuse the short and the long term ;
the study of the the the government logjam the the power to Regulations that the authority to the Act , contraventions as a supplementary the ports , political the reduction of the mischief as it is the use in the other juridictions ;
the study , the question concerned , the political Canadian antidrogues that the committee feels appropriate for work the mandate .
that the committee Special the museum the five senators , the the quorum the Canadian three members ;
that the committee that the power to do appear the the people and the devastating the the documents , the suggested the the witnesses , the make the Canadian time to other and the make papers the the Order of the documents , quiet and evidence that the instructions of the committee ;
that the briefs received and the evidence heard in the the examination of the bill to the C - 8 , the fact , the regulatory the matters drugs and the people stroke , the Canadian and chemicals , by the Committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional during the second session of the Thirty - fifth Parliament , that study the the committee ;
that the committee be authorized to Authorize , the the the Krever appropriate , the broadcasting , the broadcasting and the premature by the inclusion of the media coverage of the ground or the one of the the deliberations and the the information that he holds ;
that the committee be authorized to sit during the sittings of the Senate . " the the rule 95 ( 2 ) the the Rules and the Senate ; and
that the committee , the report final the the most later three years after the date of the creation . - (
the Honourable Senator Kenny ) .
the Honourable Colin Kenny :
honourable senators , I rise to speak today , for the Canadian the motion of the senator Nolin to the joint a committee on Special to reassess the legislation and the political Canadian antidrogues .
he is a time , review our strategies current the fight against the consumer the Controlled .
honourable senators , he is clear to us all the the attitude of the Canadian , the respect to the political antidrogues and the people results . This .
the Canadian . the most of the many of learning that the political current not limited not the results souhait?s .
the the amounts of money important , registered in the application of the legislation antidrogues , but the problems social and the problems of health benefits to the drug continue to unravel and taking the Canadian the magnitude .
the creation of a committee Special responsible for the broad mandate the motion put would the way ideal the remaining the public .
it lend the definition of need own , the various regions .
the the legal and the the doctors experts valuable a strategy antidrogue the needs the Canadian and address legal , the the problems of health and the the issues financial .
honourable senators , he is a the one issue either .
the Canadian a year . is already gone been the Diane Riley the report , in November 1998 , the report on the Controlled and the political the the Controlled the the Canada , report that it has prepared to the senator Nolin .
the time . time , sought the opinions of the Canadian , the look what are the values and the other , the the cost and the benefits of the political existing .
the information on the the approaches and honesty different using the the foreign lend the choosing the political , dealing to the Canada .
the issues legal , the problems of health and the concerns financial the the protracted the Canadian products of stup?fiants the multiplient and earning time , become .
as it is a the one issue sensitive , the governments have too often trend the the ?luder .
this attitude not . not in the public . the Canada and the the citizens .
the first recommendation of the report Riley to the the , the one of the Canadian political Canadian , the Canadian Food and the the relationship with the right within and international , there was the standards provisions the the rights of the human .
the inquiry is also bring the the political and the program of the country . the federal .
since the tabling of the report , he not to the fact that the .
the senator Nolin we , all the service in the Members that the consumer the stup?fiants questions of major problems facing us we are interest .
he we must be empowered sure the the subject of the consumer the Controlled the the Canada .
as a committee Special the the Senate would the power to print the the witnesses , the papers the production of documents and the receiving the the briefs and the the evidence , the report final would be blunt reliable the information objectives .
a committee Special the quality of the Canadian , the the analysis , the entire to the same the the solutions possible to the problems that taken the consumer the Controlled and the political antidrogue the the Canada .
needless to say that the government . interest deep the the results of a study , the - that , and the motion to the Senate . good to the role of the Canadian the plan in the very important issue .
honourable senators , I would urge the support the motion of the senator Nolin to the Canadian a committee Special responsible for the Canadian . the the use of compliance ill?gales the the Canada .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . )
bill to the Act , safeguards the the information personal and the documents electronic
motion requesting the the committee , the business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , scinder the bill to the in both the Sittings of the article
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Murray , P , seconded by the Honourable Senator Beaudoin ,
that he be given to the Committee on the biggest will referred to the Canadian law C - 6 , education next :
that he has the power to scinder the bill to the C - 6 , the motion to facilitate and the use of Trade Ministerial the virtue of information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in providing the use of the coverage to bring or put the the information and the the sophisticated and the Act , the Act , and the the Canada , the Act , the Statutory Instruments and the Act , the review of the legislation , in both the Canadian law , the Prime the declining the Canadian Partie 1 and the the Journals 1 , the the skin and a clause of entry , into the the second , set of the rest of the bill to the and the the annexes 2 and 3 with the the skin ; that the deliberations on the second bill to the ability to Oral to the the study of the Prime ; that the one or the other . the bills of the person to the subject of a report , the Senate Transport , the summer into the and that , regardless of the automotive accustomed , the Senate , this education . any time , the summer before the the bill to the , the following the the committee will began the study . - (
the Honourable Senator Kirby ) .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I do see no how the article No. 19 , remain the the Order .
he has been prepared to the bill to the and a message the summer advocates the the other place .
we do we not before the the bill to the C - 6 .
he is the rayer the the Order .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
the agreement .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the honourable senators , the people of the to the this motion be withdrawn the the Order ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the article is withdrawn . )
the freedom religious the China , report with the pactes international the the United Nations
inquiry - Debate the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the inquiry of the Honourable Senator Wilson , calling the attention of the Senate on the freedom religious the China , report with the pactes international the the United Nations . - (
the Honourable Senator Di Nino ) .
the Honourable Consiglio Di Nino :
honourable senators , as the motion tomorrow , la the the rights of the man , I wish to participate in the debate on this inquiry .
this is with pleasure , in the , the I arrive the the debate on the inquiry of the senator Wilson the Canadian freedom religious the China .
i wish to the Canadian the opportunity to speak to the comments that the remarks the senator Austin , as the the subject that the Canadian . telecommunication the Canadian the Canadian and the Canadian the human , China .
the hosts Chinese the have a the belief .
i have been a mystifi? , however , by the comments on the group witty Falun Gong , the I speak a little more in a moment .
the senator Wilson the said that the " partners church , the the are the churches determined , I guess , rightly the Falun Gong as a company foreign to the impact d?stabilisante and adequately .
i do see no , what the overlapping this confirmation rather hardie .
i do I certainly not seen the so I takes the one such conclusion .
as the the sort , as the the senator Wilson , the Constitution Chinese redistribute the freedom of belief .
why the the partners church and , therefore , it is the , I presume , taking the people of Falun Gong the part ?
is the the because it is a the the five religions official of the China ?
it . d?cevrait .
i would thought that the senator Wilson , the government . the importance to the public . the community religious and the Hon. experience applaud , would the tol?rante .
in passing , I have read the morning that he is that 30 million . Christian Chinese the murder each day , the bunker , Eastern or emprisonn?s by the authorities convincing .
he seems that they not to realize not in the the site of culte approved record .
he would interesting the knowledge , the senator Wilson or his colleagues have asked the question to their hosts during their visit the China .
honourable senators , before the us interrompions our work for our break the summer , the senator Austin the in the way to me to some comments that I had made to the subject of the respect to the rights of the human , China .
he said , basically that I cherchais too , confrontation and that we should be more conciliants with the Chinese .
in the other words , we should close to most of some abuse committed . - there .
he is clear that I do then be the agreement with this .
this is a well fine lot , but it is the not awarded true .
honourable senators , our relations with the China , criterion the three major consistently .
he is the first , first , immigration .
i have had been first contacts with the China and the Chinese the Canadian reseller the the years 50 , then , I was a young banquier in the neighbourhood Chinese the Toronto .
the the years of the years , I have touch the the contacts with various the Canadian the community Chinese and I can say , religion that their presence . CAMOS to promote the necessity of our country .
the Canadian of origin Chinese contribute a huge contribution to the Canada .
they work hard and the are the the citizens honest and slips .
they ?largissent and enriched our culture .
the Canada is the great grow to the the motion of the Immigration Chinese .
however , the not can not say , the I , the Canadian , something . Consequently in the case of the second track of our relations with the China , the business and the trade .
in the years heading 1993 , these relations were the progressive .
the trade trade , the little about ?quivalents .
if I do I understand , they were the the Order specified billion . $ by the Canadian each side .
the that the difference when the government of the past , the power .
since 1993 , the taxpayers Canadian . forced to subsidize , the stars the $ the $ , and the sort of revenue right , the deterioration made Mr. Chr and his colleagues , increase the presence of the Canada . China and our opportunities the the market Chinese .
the results are surviving , the motion of the the " may say .
in the , since this period , the value of the export Canadian to the China , incomes regularly , the Canadian value of the worth the most that doubled .
in the , it has virtually tripl? , except mistake .
the third track of the reports that we seemed with the China to the role that the Canada has become played as initiate the the rights of the human .
the one time , honourable senators , the governments Canadian favorisaient the the values and the the values the result of arduous the the world .
unfortunately , as we , we all , the not . not the case , he is the Canadian the China .
now , we do we are the one another group of people of business of poor the information of the market .
we do d?fendons no more the idea that he should there have a link between the rights of the human and the trade .
the Prime Minister Chr that the country , the one too little size to influer the Canadian China .
Mr. . Chr we said that he is a great friend of the leaders Chinese .
why not to commit - the not the this friendship ?
our best friends to the world . the citizens of the United - United the North .
our little size not we being not the the records .
we , we went .
why not we , we not act of the same way to the place . the China ?
why treatment is thrown Special the the government Chinese ?
why the government Chinese has the the so , come to preclude the sidelines the the trade , the boundaries of the country ?
honourable senators , the summer the , I weeks after the the senator Austin that the " the House of the the Canadian China had changed to the best , the government Chinese the appr?hend? the Canadian 30 per - and individuals .
since the time , he has continued to authorize .
the ones crime ?
the the government Chinese and , I , presumably , the the partners church the the senator Wilson , the motion because the people adh?rent the the movement witty Falun Gong , the I have heard the , the few minutes .
in the Canadian appr?hender all these people , the government has ordered that the Canadian 1.5 million . cassettes , the brochures and the other sections linked to the movement that confisqu?s or adversely .
he is the same in the the autodaf?s the books .
honourable senators , he is something that difficult to the armed that he can be a the the autodaf?s the books , the direction of the third millennium .
the the books . was br?l?s for the Starr , the subamendment the system Nationale .
the communistes Chinese seem now have said , Senator the this short , however occasional list , and the senator Austin drain that the progress .
honourable senators , in my whip the Canadian . the the rights of the human , I do I mention the intent of diaboliser the Chinese .
i believe firmly that the Chinese , who , are IT , are also horrifi?s the look the the the existence in their country .
my comments improve the the government and the the people Chinese .
the Prime Minister said that we do we no impact .
why , the government continues to the organic the the world world . the Canadian and the Canadian the human ?
this is the one of the objectives basic .
the rights of the human not make - they not part of the political foreign the the Canada ?
it seems evident .
the paying true also a document " : " - Canada in the world . .
the the document , the Canada can contribute a significant ways to the safety international the advent the promotion of the values Canadian , the the prairies the respect to the rights of the human , the Canadian democracy and the Canadian law , the right .
why not the work , we not in the case of the China ?
why not do - we not the promotion of our priorities in the case ?
he seems that the " no committed not speak to other things that the the meetings to higher level and the camera closed , the the symposiums Higher , the the initiatives the cooperation and the the bills of dialogue .
if the government believes that the freedom of reprisal and the rights of the human are the the pillars of our policy foreign , he should the " to the the world . exception .
he should shown by the actions that he has the courage of the conviction .
why the Prime Minister . the funniest the not the the representatives of the world to criticize the lowest of the Tibet or the persecution religious the the Falun Gong the China ?
the limitations trade . - they have high or the virtues - " links the friendship with the leaders Chinese if low ?
the Honourable Senator Wilson we said that the partners church the China , the opinion that the Falun Gong is a threat to the stability of the China .
this is strange .
the bouddhistes not have not a threat , the Catholic and the protestants not more , and the ages that no , each or the other . believe the the Proph?te or the most of lead the lesson of the tao?sme .
he not there has the the members of the Falun Gong .
honourable senators , Monday the this week , the chairman American , Mr. Clinton , contrary to the counterpart Canadian , the fact , statement to the subject .
he has described the Throne within the the members of the Falun Gong as
... a leadership disturbing the one of government to the supreme the people who offered test the limits of the freedom .
the the the said : "
the targets the the government Chinese not have not the the dissidents political , and we know their accounting and beliefs .
but the principle . in reality not least the same : freedom of conscience and freedom of nicotine .
i specific that the comments Mr. Clinton McGrath in the same sense that the point of the concerns of months , by the two Houses of the Congress American .
in the , in a resolution concurrente , the House of the representatives and the Senate . exhort? the China , banned the pers?cuter the movement Falun Gong .
the resolution was making the fair as the the removal of the secte Falun Gong severest the home Constitution of the China .
it is also contrary to the Covenant international Covenant the the rights civilian and political and the Canadian Declaration Universal the the rights of the man .
honourable senators , the the time when the Canadian . the the point of saluting the end of the Hanukkah and the scenarios the Canadian l , we should all look at the values fundamental that future . traditions .
the Just the the Lumi?res , the birth of the Christ and the other celebrations the the kind we talk the the , the Canadian and values transcendantes that all the men shared and peoples .
these enthusiasms we talk the the , the in the world . the bombing the the values are condemned and the ones human the the professent , persecution .
the time . beautiful , I believe , for those of the us who go?tent the fruits of the freedom and the Canadian democracy . prier to our great the not have not the opportunity .
in our prayers , honourable senators , we should also to the the government reprenne the certainty and the Canadian the Canada . , sported the the rights of the human across the the world .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Poy , the debate is adjourned . )
the Estimates , the Estimates , 1999 - 2000
notice of Motion to Authorize the the committee , the Finance Finance . to the Economy , the Estimates , Motion to vote , Stands the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Murray , P , seconded by the Honourable Senator Beaudoin ,
that the Committee on the Canadian and money Finance be authorized to study , to the in the report , the Estimates expenditures in the Estimates , the Estimates for the fiscal fiscal the closing the 31 March 2000 ; and
that the Committee present its report , the most final 31 March 2000 ;
the Act , would the amendment of the Honourable Senator Robichaud , P ( Saint - Louis - the - Kent ) , seconded by the Honourable Senator Hervieux - Payette , P , the Canadian motion be amended by adding , after the words , the the Estimates , the Estimates for the fiscal fiscal the closing the 31 March 2000 . the the the following :
the " the exception of the credits 1 , 5 and 10 , the Fisheries and Oceans ;
that the Committee on the Canadian and Oceans be authorized to study of spending expenditures of the Fisheries and Oceans content in the Estimates , the Estimates for the fiscal the closing the 31 March 2000 ; and
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin :
in the other words , I have adjourned . debate on the name of the senator Stollery , the motion away at the
i ask that this section of the Order of the Order the date name to the name of the senator Stollery .
( the debate is stands . )
the Summit of the Francophonie
inquiry - Adjourned the the debate , Maintien the the article
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I ask , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 27 ( 3 ) the the Rules , the this notice of inquiry , the the Order to the the medical the Christmas .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
is the the Canadian agreed , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Hays :
i will provide a explanation , if the honourable senator wish .
honourable senators , this notice of inquiry dispara?tra the the Order of the next sitting , he is found been p.m. days .
i received the the honourable senators , I have the intent of making the the Senate . adjourned . 16 at Monday .
the senator Gauthier would speak to the subject Tuesday .
the the the opinion of inquiry . the not ray? the the Order before the the senator from the opportunity to speak , I ask the leave of ongoing the matter of the the the , the date , the medical the Christmas .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the senator Hays the motion now expressed the this inquiry .
we , the the side - the , not verrions not the aspect to the the the opinion of inquiry , name to the name of the senator Gauthier and the the the the fact , day , at concise the one .
we are completely the agreement to the subject and accept that the senator Gauthier ruined the the subject Tuesday next , not any what other day .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
the honourable senators , the people of the to the the opinion of inquiry No. 1 , name to the name of the senator Gauthier , the " the Order ?
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , he is fair and discipline the Canadian the Canadian the senator Kinsella , interpret my comments as if I am I expressed the the inquiry .
in the case , as the senator Kinsella : the bloodstream , the fact , day , at the the inquiry up to a to the next sitting .
it allows the objective of the failure of a way , ?l?gante , the - be , the the the I had moved .
it . attach satisfactory .
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , I disagree the assertion the reason the senator Hays , even the senator Kinsella , the motion expressed the the inquiry .
this is the the senator who , the Canadian a inquiry . up the privilege of the subject in the .
the senator Gauthier . the motion . , rendered the the subject .
the to learning that if a place one has spoken of this inquiry of the not know nothing , it has to the Canadian bring to zero the number of days name to the Order would create a dangerous precedent .
section that , if we vote whole of surgery is worth the zero , in spite of the fact that the senator Gauthier . the not yet the Hon. inquiry , the motion of the case , and I accepterais that we tarred the Canadian the .
the senator Kinsella :
i readiness to the interpretation and the the board of the senator Corbin .
i think that he has totally the and I am , the fact , with the the .
my analysis was erron?e .
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I think that if we convenions that the inquiry No. 1 paraisse in the Order of the next sitting , if the was the Prime on the first , the would hand .
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , consequently that a inquiry or a motion be placed on my name and that I do so that the subject of weekly next .
Manitoba - I deal . previous to ask that we return to the Order of the debate ?
we must be very attention to the manner the us appliquons the principle .
the senator Gauthier . " that he benefits of Senator Tuesday , the subject of the inquiry .
he need to sell that he can do its inquiry Tuesday , the the place . create a precedent General , the the would the the other very trying to deal .
jugeons rather each of the Hon. deserves .
the senator Hays :
if the motion acceptable , I prierai my colleagues , to their agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the motion continue to be placed on the Order of the name of the senator Gauthier to the traditional ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the article is maintained . )
the rights of the human and the mother multiethniques
inquiry - adjournment of the debate
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) , with the opinion , valley December 1998 :
the honourable senators , such is the subject of the wish to the
the government . the time , I bring a firm abr?g?e the my remarks .
if I wish to the day , this issue , the motion that the senator Andreychuk the fact that , in the statement that it has introduced to the beginning of the present at the the near , the 10 December , is the Day international the the rights of the man .
the senator Di Nino has also took this , our attention when he has made the honourable . " the time .
the Day international the the rights of the man , the 10 December , is a day important to the community international .
as the Canadian encouraged looking the importance to the rights of the human , he is , I believe , the us , the Canadian House high the the Parliament , pasts . comfortable the Canadian Declaration Universal the the rights of the man .
he is also important that we rappelions that a distinguished Canadian . in the Canadian non - the Declaration Universal the the rights of the man who has been proclam?ele 10 December 1948 by the Assembly general , the United Nations .
this fall , the the United , in a report that he has the " the Council of security , the the Canada is currently a member permutant , the present Secretary General , Kofi Annan , the subject of the protection of the civil the the years of the mother armed .
the Secretary General has said that , in spite of the adoption , the the years ratio years in the Canadian various conventions on the rights international , humanitarian and human , he not to what the little about the one day , the Canadian and Political innocent that travellers , brutalis?s , tortur?s and killed in the the mother armed .
that he is whether the mutilations the the Sierra Leone , the genocide the the catalogued , the purification ethnic in the Balkans or the disparitions the North America , the parties to the the mother corner injected these conventions on the rights human .
honourable senators , the end of the war cold the person - be occupied the world . the threat of a war nuclear PQ .
in the time , however , since the drop of the ripe the Berlin , the Canadian 4 million . the people were atrociously in the the mother violent and the rest of the $ the refugee and the people displaced in the world world .
the events disasters in the Balkans and the in this only decade indicate to be the the motion none of the deal to the complexit?s the the mother multiethniques modern .
in the time , we are horrifi?s by the 1920 events who are presently the the catalogued the 1994 .
we recognize that these issues are extremely complex .
as the Secretary General of the well . out , we offensive that the peace - the peace and the Canadian Transportation international require a response to all the process of a conflict or the one conflict requires , to the the Republic , the in minimize the consequences and the , to a long a time that he has started , or in the Canadian official the peace - the peace and the transition of the peace , there was the reconciliation and the board of the justice , a time , NATO debated .
the Canada participates drew the the intervention international , and we are proud that our country and the Canadian can contribute to the contributions of the kind .
all these actions are important .
he is enrolled in the the realm ideas , there was the concept of law , the path of the United and the the integrity land .
as the the vehemence , in September , the Secretary General Annan :
the the marginalized the path strictly traditional not have more accountable justice . the aspirations of all the Aboriginal the lurch the people Freedoms fundamental -
the the abuses massives and syst?matiques the the rights of the human , the the provinces will the devastating , not should not be tol?r?es .
honourable senators , the community international must recognize that , with the end of the war cold , the safety of the people , the the prairies their rights human , become more important that the safety of the United .
today , the " no suppose most that the right international top a more , priority to the path of the United and the the integrity land that the the rights of the human or the the autod?termination .
honourable senators , I believe that the Canadian the protection of the rights of the human the Prime principle of the relationship international removing greatly to avoid the the mother multiethniques and the whole a democracy and a peace best .
we must move beyond the significance of the principle of the path of the United , the the domin? the relationship international to the the Order .
we must come to the principles of the Declaration Universal the the rights of the man and the most of the conventions and the the treaty international the the rights of the human the people were ?labor?s the Canadian , the Canadian Declaration Universal and the the in census .
honourable senators , unfortunately , which we , the goodies that the country . " , the the years of the decades , eye to the commitments enrolled in the instruments relating to the rights of the human .
the high - Commissioner of the United Nations , the rights of the man , Mary Packwood , former chairman of the Ireland , the liver in a statement that it has made the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations the year , the "
when the fact , the Canadian 50 years of the in the Canadian instruments relating to the rights of the man and the 30 years of programs . R the number billion . $ and the speech , higher level , the results . the situation automotive -
this is a monopoly failure to us should be shame .
as the high - Commissioner the the United Nations of the rights of the man , Dr. Packwood , the said :
in the the concerns of predatory the standards , the work is the in the part .
the standards international the the the concerns of Rights of the man . in the .
the task for us all - is the the ports .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Beaudoin , the debate is adjourned . )
library of the Parliament
withdrawal of the motion of authority to the committee Joint Committee of sitting , the committee , the Senate
the the call the Canadian motion No. 27 :
that the Committee Joint Committee of the Library of the Parliament , though the Senate for the committee and the sittings of the Senate ; and
that a message be restored to the House of the House of the in the .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I ask that this motion be withdrawn the the Order .
the question . was resolved by the adoption of the Prime the sub the Canadian Jewish the Rapports the committee to the the committee Joint Committee of the Library of the Parliament .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
is the the Canadian agreed , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is withdrawn . )
business Social , Science and Technology
motion of authority to the committee , to the state of the system of health - Adjourned the the debate
the Honourable Michael Kirby , with the rose Tuesday 28 October 1986 :
that the Committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , though the review , for the make the , the state of the system of health , the Canada .
the particular , the the committee be authorized to examine :
the motion - governing basic the countries . based on the public . health , the Canada ;
d ) The system of health , the Canada - Why and constraint ;
e ) The role of the government , in the system of health , the Canada ;
that the Committee present its report final the the most later , at December 2001 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , by terrorism the the rules usuelles , the table . the Clerk of the Clerk of the Senate , the Senate . " no , the time , that the and that the report be deposited have been tabled the the Senate .
this mandate . m the approval unanimous the the members of the committee .
this study has to the basic the other act of the changes important to the point of honourable in the system of care of health to various reasons , including the evolution size , the innovations generic and bitter , and the expectations new the the Canadian the people rights in the Canadian health of health .
the members of the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology feel that is the likely , the the plan social , the question strategic the most important and also the most cause in our country .
the impact of the cost linked to the care of health . Moore that the system of the will very likely not viable the the plan economic in a future predictable .
the members of the committee wishes both the shadow of education , would have related to the the students cooperation pr?alablement , the by their the and the their guardians sense .
we want to a forum where the " will appear , the one way general , the Canadian political Canadian of the care of health in the years , in the , the particular , the the role of the government , the
we hope that , with the time , the developing a series of recommendations strategic the the intent of the government , the recommendations regarding the role in the system of care of health .
if the Senate does this mandate , the committee steering ?laborera , in January , a plan of the detailed the will put the the members of the committee , then , who , the committee , the Economy Economy .
the Honourable Consiglio Di Nino :
honourable senators , then , I ask a question ?
the chairman , he asked the Minister of the health , the subject ?
the case afforded , the - the us to the Canadian and results of these consultations ?
the senator Kirby :
if I had asked the Minister of the health and that he I had d?conseill? the make this study , I am happy found in a situation sensitive .
if the motion is unequivocally and that a plan of the motion carried , I am pleased to me relationship with the representatives of the Department .
i do I do the Canadian this issue of the Minister or the no as the the Department .
the senator Di Nino :
honourable senators , the issues of health chevauchent the the areas of federal federal and provincial .
the chairman , he the intent of cooperate with the provinces or the coordinator the efforts efforts by the different levels when come to the Canadian planned the Senate future of the committee ?
the senator Kirby :
honourable senators , I hesitant the answer , because of the would maintain the the role of the government , in the area of the health .
in this vein , he would desirable the matter with the the ministers provincial and the the representatives of the provinces and the suggested their evidence .
the committee . the absolute not the intent of the immiscer in the issues of federal Provincial .
we want to what changes to be to the Canadian political federal at the
the senator Di Nino :
honourable senators , the care of health matters primarily the the provinces and the the territories .
the patients are directly and Latin affected by the provinces .
i am asking how this kind of the person be realized . the cooperation serious the most of fournissent the services of health , the public .
he is the understanding how these roles can change in the future structure of the care of health .
the senator Kirby :
honourable senators , I am fully the agreement with the senator Di Nino .
i r?pondais the the first question , I have said that the committee entendrait the witnesses the the governments provincial .
the as the reason , I bring to the not speak to the Minister of the health , the approval of this study by the Senate , we do attention to the not have the air of supporting or the feasibility the Committee of a question to a committee on the Canadian telecommunications . a suspensive the the governments provincial .
the other hand , the government provincial and the many other organizations are the the leadership , the full in the issues and we wish to look during the process .
the senator Di Nino :
honourable senators , I do wish to extend the debate .
it characterized - the one problem . the committee , I ajournais the debate , the the the I can obtain the comments of the members of the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology ?
the senator Kirby :
honourable senators , he is that a problem , the motion . was not unequivocally before the adjournment of l .
if the Senate does this mandate , we have the intent of work in January , the development of a plan detailed .
i do will not the effort if we do we not the approval .
the senator Di Nino :
i do cr?erai not the delay .
i wish add that is the
we entreprenons . the students and the Senate . the fault the the , the Canadian debate on the Senate or with the little of debate .
the , when we spend per $ $ or more , he is that the Canadian , the wish to the Canadian what he allies in La our deliberations .
this is very widest .
the result , if you not have not the aspect , we are pencherons the Canadian . the week next and I move the adjournment of the debate .
the Honourable Nicholas W . Taylor :
honourable senators , I thank the senator Kirby , the single this view of the prior because the the motion of the the the Senate may be the to which he is qualified .
i thank the the senator Di Nino the have raised a view , which I had thought , the knowledge that he not be not realize the end of talk the the provincial and that the the federal .
i preface that the idea of the senator Kirby , not . to the leave pre the the ministers of the health of fear of essuyer a failure is good - and I speak , knowledge of the following the high nine children who have all used to define .
i know very well how this strategy operating and it seems away .
in our system of health public , the part private , by the , the Olympics the doctors , an open a certain importance .
if the committee , the the time , he could the committee on the reports of the private and the public .
as the honourable senators , knowing , the motion of the very cause .
the senator Kirby :
honourable senators , I say that this will certainly a question that we undergo the detail .
moreover the fact that is the rather clear , when the analysis of the related to the direction Social concerning the country . threaten , the question of the so , the Canadian health of the truly sustainable is the question essential .
this is that the us . expediency the door in the debate .
however , he is the three or four weeks , the government . the Alberta , the one does the principle of the construction of hospitals private the Calgary .
my response personal the Canadian reading of this statement of the government . the Alberta , the motion that I have found that proposal . " the act to the Act , the Canadian health .
i the greatest in spite of the comments . ?motifs the one myriad of people to the supreme the Canadian proposal of the Alberta , there was the the people of the other place .
the said , from the team of the the people - that law , in their protests , the Canadian proposal of the government . the Alberta . is not proceed to the Act , the Canadian health .
he I would be the us we should a debate on the Canadian . the the system of health , he is the first , the Canadian . Corrections the Canadian and made and the Canadian reality .
this is why I think that we must be dealt the Canadian . the the area private .
i am , the fact , with the
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the the risk of the subsequent gallantry nauseam , I must express my concern as the the fact that the " request to the Senate that he give card Kerner the one of the
i do I do , the subject of the study , but it is the the the " Give to all the CCN the the committee , he is a the students who are also complex , d?taill?es and hostilities that the - the .
this study grant a year and shocking , even more , because it would be worthy to the the reasons valid .
the senator Nolin has asked the authority to be a study the duration the the least three years , the same to the plan of the General or the budget .
how fees this study the the Senate ?
the one time , honourable senators , I think that we challenging the hub before the boeufs .
we give the authority , after what the the committee , Budgets Economy , including , the the repair to find the fund , the staff and the the rest .
the right to the way to a committee would , the first , the establishing the budget , the definition the mandate and the criteria the length of the study .
the question of the I find that this way of properly is preferable the same the the " it card Kerner the the committee . the concern to the the that management and the the time that this grant .
the Honourable Colin Kenny :
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
the , I do I do . that the
the senator Di Nino :
honourable senators , I do believe that the the Senate . the question valid .
i believe that the , the the senator Lynch - Staunton , he we must review the process that we have followed up to the to see if we could the latest the response , before the approval the study , the have the the least a view of the cost .
the that , he is the the us we technicality the approval a study the the cost final the ?l?verait the 40,000 million dollars , the us not have not .
i believe that the use of the Honourable Senator is very valid .
i hope convince my colleagues , the the least , the the side - the the are members of the committee Standing the the business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , the thought , the this issue , in hoping that we can be a discussion Chair . the subject of weekly next .
i do I do defeat the debate , but I am pleased to propose the adjournment , the least , some of the other . whatever to the honourable .
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I am in the be the agreement to the time with the senator Lynch - Staunton and with the senator Kenny , the so , where are diam?tralement contradictory .
i will you tell why .
the Rules and the Senate . the Canada . the not to a committee , to the the money , the Hon. the not be the approval .
i am the agreement with the senator Lynch - Staunton for the the us do the things , the responsibility , the motion ? " - that the prior to Authorize a committee to do a study , we should be a view of the the it fees .
this is exactly why , when I have the question for the - I believe that is the the , the two weeks - I have given a Senate . " the work and stated the cost approximatif the the plan of the .
incidentally , the budget . was subject . morning , the committee , the Economy Economy , the the the grass the half .
the committee , the Economy Economy believed - and the the very that I am the agreement with him on the point of the the not had not a rather the idea of the the the other committees r?clameraient ; it has a brave the Far the amounts budget reading by step .
the I , we have raised this afternoon , afternoon . problem as the country order and the our proceedings .
the senator Kirby , the " the name of the committee . the Canadian study special that all the members of the committee . seconded the the unanimous .
he was a the present the the Senate , pursuant to our rules of the to go to the Canadian this proposal and to the leave adapt before the power then prepare a budget , the Aboriginal the the subamendment , the committee , the Economy , the in the Canadian the , the the committee , the Economy Economy .
i do I do the Star with the Government of the senator Lynch - Staunton .
in the , I am the agreement with him and we have already been the the discussions , the subject in the past , the motion , the I , the way , we should proceed .
the senator Kenny :
honourable senators , I do see that is the difficulty in the provisions current the the Rules .
i do believe that the the committee , the Economy Economy should decide to us on what the or interpellations we can we look .
i do is not to state of the model proposed by the senator Carstairs , the motion ? " - that the the committee , a estimate general , the cost of the study .
he is a the amount of a process , both simple .
if the approval . , not the one side as the the other , the study . the will not .
the first step is the information the approval of the Senate .
the second is the the highest the the committee , the Economy Economy , the hope the information to resources financial highway .
if the Senate endorses the approval , along the the highest the Canadian Economy Economy .
if the Senate , the harbour , while the Canadian Economy Economy , the not the event fund properly the study , the committee is private the average and not be unsustainable the study .
he would be the possible to the chairman of Indian the Senate . the problem and the in abeyance the the report of the Economy Economy , the the first senator is the right to do .
i believe the fight the the motion , the the highest the first , the committee , the person to indicate to the bill .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Di Nino , the debate is adjourned . )
adjournment
leave having been granted , back to the opinion of Motion to the government :
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 58 ( 1 ) at ) the the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate . stand today , the the Senate to the Monday next , the 13 December 1998 , the 16 at the
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
leave granted , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate . adjourned . the Monday 13 December 1998 , the 16 at the motion
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 20
the Monday 13 December 1998
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the dumping
the Late the the Honourable R . Kelleher back , Q Q .
tribute
the Senate
the Monday 13 December 1998
the Chair . Chair . 16 at the the Speaker , the the Chair .
prayers .
the Late the the Honourable R . Kelleher back , Q Q .
tribute
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , by threatening to our colleague who has the d?c?der , the Honourable Senator Balfour , I would suggest to you raise and the Right with me a minute of silence .
( the honourable observent a minute of silence . )
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , in sign the respect to our former colleague , the senator back , I move that the Senate . adjourned now .
( the Senate . adjourned . p.m. at tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 21
the traditional p.m. December 1998
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the dumping
the Late the the Honourable R . Kelleher back , Q Q .
tributes
Maxwell Tabled '
the Manitoba
the First Nation the Cross Cold - Conformity rate of suicide high
the New - New
the bill to the motion to establish a day , comm?moration the the Holocaust
the Olympics Olympics special
Ottawa - Effect Games the winter the the year 2000
visitor the Gallery
official languages
the Act , and the implementation of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
report revised the the committee
the adjournment
bill to the Act , Trade final nisga' the
first Reading
bill to the Canadian ambassador No. 2 to 99 - 2000
first Reading
the Association Parliamentary Canada - NATO
the delegation to the session Annual the 1998 meeting of Amsterdam , the the Netherlands - speaking , p the the report
the recommendations of the board Royal the the Aboriginal Peoples the Canadian public policy aboriginal
notice of Motion During the committee , the Aboriginal Peoples the deadline the date of thirteen the Hon. the final
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the business Intergovernmental
the bill to the Act , clarity of the process referendum - Effect guideline of the
the Court Supreme
the terminologie the Canadian decision on the Committee Covenant the the plebiscite
the Transportation
the Nova Scotia Nova Scotia - Commitment the the government , the face the four put the road EH
the Finance
the distribution of supply the the CHST the the Pension the pension of the Canada . the Canadian federalist the the wedding
the health
the possibility of a settlement the the following the soft the the soft
the request of a study on the effects of the soft
the delay in the publication of the report scientific
the fishery and the Oceans
the RCCs crab - Effect replacement of croisi?re the the first ministers
answers delayed the Canadian and the control
the economy
the Upholder the great Polish by the the business American - Government Policy the the government
election Canada
the Manitoba - Government loss of information places - Conformity transfer of information personal - Conformity principle of the consent - Effect procedures of security the the data personal
the trade internationally
the failure of the discussions , the Organization World of the trade , - granting agricultural the the United the - Conformity the " and producers Canadian
the Heritage
the status of the Museum commemorative the the Holocaust
on business orders
the Act , and the implementation of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
third reading of Suspended the the debate
the Senate . the Senate
the Summit of the Francophonie
inquiry - Adjourned the the debate
the bill to the in the Canadian the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
third reading
bill to the Canadian 99 to the implementation of the Canadian taxation tax
third reading of Second the the debate
the speech , the Throne
motion of the Canadian the question . response
the speech , the Throne
the Adresse the answer to Motion Honourable the Canadian reseller the the debate on eighteenth on the Chair of Sittings of the article
the Act , the snitch in the basis public
second reading of adjournment of the debate
the Act , the Royal Assent
the Act , the Parliament of the Canada
bill to the Second - Second Reading - Debate the the debate
the Act , the Immigration
bill to the Second - Second Reading - Adjourned the the debate
the application tabled under the Canadian Act , the Transportation the the Canada During the the discussions on a proposal of the area private to the Upholder the one from air - Report of the committee , the Transportation and the the communication - Adjourned the the debate
internal Economy , Budgets and Administration
the Canadian the second report of the committee
the Estimates , the Estimates , 1999 - 2000
leave to the committee , the Finance Finance . to the Estimates , the Estimates
withdrawal of the motion of amendment
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
the Organization for the safety and the cooperation in Europe , The eighteenth session Annual the the Assembly Parliamentary Conference , St. - Petersbourg , in Russia , Inquiry
the Ontario
the Act , the restructuring regional - Conformity refusal of the government 500,000 the feasibility of Stamp to the make the Ottawa . city bilingual - Inquiry - Adjourned the the debate
the Senate
motion of peace - the Orders of Royal Assent - Maintien the Canadian motion
the Senate
the traditional p.m. December 1998
the Chair . Chair . p.m. at the the Speaker , the the Chair .
prayers .
the Late the the Honourable R . Kelleher back , Q Q .
tributes
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , not more later , the week , the I am I talked with our colleague Jim Balfour , the the Late injury in the night , Sunday we , all afflig?s .
he was as it has been for the the life - a life nicotine by the Canadian a tragedy personal - the the motion ? " - that sto?que , enthusiasm and , by the above all , confident .
he is death to the following the one long list , the the need to the treatment difficult and unhappy , the to the Tibetan his political the living .
never I do the I heard the correct or even show the the warning of d?couragement , then , the the tainted that all the intervention medical the av?reraient outlive .
i would the Canadian and , the exposure that I , the field of the the virtues of the architect career , as private that public .
this , I frappait the the , the were the name accessible the result of the one esteemed colleague and friend .
loyalist , unswerving and committed , he was always be the Senate when the vote was required , the the background of liability personal urgent , and always sorry when the disease the intervening the other hand , the Senate . the House .
how the time , the " said , to the the health , the place and how the time . in the the way . ?
the the year , the years . the Canadian sclerosis , then , the Breast did have been beat , he has agreed with enthusiasm the Chair of the subamendment , the Canadian and business of the former Veterans , when the senator Phillips . the the retirement .
he tried to the the role , he could help to the improvement of the conditions of life of those and those who have served their mother .
he has always late that the things , that lactation if crudely .
that is that the the caucus , the Canadian House of the the public . a committee , the intervention were always cable with great the attention to his wisdom and his sense managed a sad particular , the debate .
the conduct , the motion bosses the experience and the knowledge and the the ports judicieusement .
the in the - the Canadian Jim , as well , the Parliament , as the member distinguished that the the as Hugh friend .
certainly , he is the somewhat peerage the feeling that is deuil is shared by some of each , but it is cut in this , expanse of our loss .
i offer my deepest sympathy to his family .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I deplore , with my colleagues , the disastrous the the senator Jim Balfour .
the senator back was a the my friends , as it . was to many of the honourable .
i have a warm Jim Balfour and the incredible experience whose the the fact benefit this chamber , as the lawyer , a the business , former MP federal and Senator .
the " the experience , he was able to go to the heart of the problems and the make a huge contribution to the good government . the Canada , said , the University of the Senate .
i do I do . the Canadian the subamendment , the with him in this imperative , but I have observed the senator back in the role of the Canadian the subamendment , the committee , to the issues of the Defence down , including the role of peace - the peace that role of Canada in the world .
in 1993 , the committee that he chaired the report in this place . the the pace no - the prescience .
he identifiait the the point of the so that the , was attacked , the availability of the Republic a great many of the problems facing the are heurt?s our efforts of peace - the peace these past years .
the senator back love the family .
i the news because the us were rejected , and the case of the many discussions that we have conversations during the disease of the wife and the other pieces familiaux , the some tragic .
the senator back , the good sense and his into the beleaguered looking .
i am join the the honourable senators , clinical the the family my very deepest sympathy .
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , it is 38 years , Skookum Jim and I are friends .
think the the life and the the death up to pause the the courage and the forbearance .
in 1958 , the the age of 30 years , Skookum Jim the lost his desk brother the the outcome of a long and douloureuse illness .
in 1990 , Skookum and his wife Jane the lost their the young son of the tragic .
in 1994 , Jane is Mrs. the one long list of the one strongly affaiblie .
in 1996 , Skookum the positive the the doctors a pronostic providing his own death .
the family , although not ?pargn?e by the malheurs , was very talentueuse and it has known a great success .
the father was a the Canadian Court Supreme the Canadian Saskatchewan . Jim the continued in a society . lawyers , Regina the report of Senator the the back .
he is much a the business and CEO of business .
he was blamed in his activities volunteers , then he has commonly a life public .
he has served 7 years , the House of the House and 20 years , the Senate .
further , the replier the the - the and not to apitoyant have the Hon. help , he has concentr? the Hon. the Act , but and the the interests to the the last machines .
when the friends . Australian the the health , he was the Canadian a great candour and the one r?alisme total .
i would orientait the game to the issues , effectively the spirit of the time , that the
the Canadian a conversation that I have conversation recently with him , these issues were the state of the purchase equipment the the Canada , the wrath of the Saskatchewan rural , the Museum of the war , Ottawa and , the course , the prospects of the Liberal Party federal .
he supportait all its problems of the d?contract?e and put the the responsibility with a serious and a Member copies .
this was a man hon. , and the example of the life and the the death is a heritage the ability to pride his family , the friends and his colleagues .
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I wish I also addressed my deepest the Canadian family , the senator back .
when I am took the Regina , ratified to deal my position of Justice , I knew have the family back .
the not be the tour in Regina , let the one point of the biggest this family , the Hon. the or left the Gallery .
i have known the senator back then , from the the appropriate accomplishments .
in the profession , Skookum Jim was a man tell .
the well prepared .
he and said , only how deal of the , but it . expliquait the importance of the Canadian and the most broadly , the the issues . deep and the issues standard of the case , the courts were before .
he was a boon to the bill , not to culture not the many in the province .
the senator back was also him for his actions political , Saskatchewan . Integrity my the , after the have met , I am told how he was able to the the door - to the door , because he not had surely not the president and the exub?rance that the associate often to the members of the classroom policy .
yet , when I have begun to know Regina , a city the not the not the mine , I have the the Hon. commitment effacing the most of the issues importait the the people of the city and the the province .
he contrasted a way of the Province the point of the Act , the and the ideal a solution avantageuse to the community .
i do think that the the , the one issue of the not to be not end quiet .
he not declared have the Chair or the position of the in the , but it was always , coulisse the giving the the advice .
he has made in the the kind of leadership , is the Gallery of a man of the and not just the one of the
with him , the two , seldom .
the senator back the many of influence in the city of Regina .
he can be difficult to work in a more affirmative community , the the need to many of money and that the right to the great problems .
that the , he Moon quiet the Canadian many services community .
the , he satellite a community , quite , who , not have order not been associated the the senator back and that we do have not namely , the
those of the us who come to Regina can the matter in the many services community to speak to the people and the apercevoir that , that the , in deep , the senator back was in the the the fate of the citizens to the Regina the one of brave .
the senator back we miss , but his work perdurera .
the many people to Regina were to the armed the the disease and guide secr?tement that he is the polled , a time .
however , we are many of the right to the end was studied when he is consummate among the biblical to do the the research on the origins of the family , Saskatchewan , with the generous that we , assure .
we did the the not the previous the the same rights , then , the - that he was always turned toward the future , and many of the friends . including the the the pr?parait the the excitement .
honourable senators , we do oublierons not Jim Balfour and I hope that the family presents the the shelters in the implementation .
the Honourable David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , I wish to the honourable senators , the Canadian , the the Late the the late Jim Balfour .
he we do the the things when the motion appointed to the Senate .
he we , including the Canadian Hemophilia the the people of the we heard about the and Tagish back was the one of these people .
Jim the work . the us are submitting the call the Saskatchewan a real achievement policy , the knowledge that he has won for the Liberal Party a seat to Regina .
the most welcome to honourable senators , not know , Regina , the people whose that when the steering the campaign to the requested , the Canadian the campaign campaign the 1958 , the the the monopoly the make the lead to the this crop to Regina , John Diefenbaker the answer : " Faites replete the city ! the
in the worlds political , we are submitting the call the city of the place Cross the .
all the gauchistes the Canadian Saskatchewan , friends to Regina .
Jim Balfour the fact that is that the Canadian Conservative the successful .
when the people of Regina , the Donkin the victory in this election , it has shown the the high that it . was the
this victory the attention of the the attention Mr. Clark , the the the appointed to the Senate . 1979 .
i do knew not very well Jim , the the I ever heard about the the .
the one of the good things which I would Telefilm is that I have been more the qualities , the richer the the public . the caucus .
i admire the integrity and the broadsides .
honourable senators , I will cover a thing that I have observed for my six years of attendance , the caucus and the motion that Jim Balfour knew the coming to the fact .
this was a man who is speaking not a , but his interventions arrivaient , the point appointed and his advice were the the most pris?s by all .
they have miss him .
the the name of the members of my family and the all the people of my hometown , I can walk the Carcross the many , for our province .
he has always the evidence of a sense and the us miss him .
i greetings . our most sincere condolences and sympathy to his family .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I would ask the well front you raise and you join the I , fascinating a time , silent the Canadian correctly , our colleague and friend deceased , the senator James back .
( the honourable observent a minute of silence . )
Maxwell Tabled '
the Manitoba
the First Nation the Cross Cold - Conformity rate of suicide high
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I wish to the the attention of the Senate . conditions tragic in which suffered the members of the First Nation the Cross Cold , a contingency origins in the part North the the Manitoba , the the south of contempt .
honourable senators , the the years of the five months months , seven people of this community of driving souls the are travel the life .
sixty other . tried to the make the the years of the same time .
these statistics are effarantes and the not be the WTO the the Victoria .
he is the Canadian and address startling to this history .
the way general , the initiatives the fight against the suicide in the communities improve primarily the young woman because the people have always set the group of the " The .
however , in the First Nation the Cross Cold , the majority of the people , tried to the lobbying the life , seniors the 20 , 30 years and the , the so , woman that the women .
the most young the have tried to the mother in the last month was Grattan the nine years .
he is difficult to me to understand the despair the the heights a young the nine years , whatever the advantage of passing in the head .
he is also difficult to imagine the same despair the one of the mother the 59 years .
honourable senators , the not be the WTO the move that crisis the silent .
the Canadian reseller the September , the the single the Right a service providers of emergency telephone Standing .
i do I will assume that is a the fishing the deficit the number of suicides .
however , the budget of 15 per $ the , the summer awarded will soon close .
we must be to the the service will be on the the fund additional to the intention to operate .
many more important , the honourable senators , we must correct the problems syst?miques the , in this community , testify these results horribles .
the New - New
a bill to the Canadian government Parliamentary the summer the " the legislative legislation by the House Conservative Eric MacKenzie to the the " comm?more each year , Holocaust .
when the legislative legislation approuvera the bill to the this week , the province of the New - New , the the I just , will the third province of the Canada , run a day , we are souviendrons the the atrocities the the betterment is able , the assassinat sake of $ the men , the women and the children , by the , and the us we rappellerons the the thousands of soldiers , woman and women , the people fought addition , overseas for grouping the owner the killing of the Third Reich and relieve the fence the Canadian death .
the Prime on the comm?moration the the Holocaust the the New - New will the 2,500 May 2000 .
the province of the Ontario , passed a measure legislation such the year , and the government . the Island , Prince Edward Island , Prince the report of the fact , the Day of comm?moration the the Holocaust the week , the
the all these provinces , I say , thank the .
the the time , the tabling of the extent legislation , Mr. MacKenzie the said :
the Canadian reseller the the century the most corner in the history of the betterment , we share the requirement to the direction of the new millennium . out of history and the in conclusion , the lessons .
as the the actions George Santayana :
those who is to the council of the are destined to the subsequent .
he extended , the this motion be introduced the 9 December the the the Canadian community international performs the this situation . important clinging the federal - rights of the human .
the 9 December Gallery the 51e anniversary of the adoption of the Convention of the United Nations to the prevention of the spot the genocide , the fact , the genocide a violation to the right international , and the 10 December marquele 51e anniversary of the Recognition the Canadian Declaration Universal the the rights of the man .
i am proud of this new legislation legislation . the government 1899 the house , the the most choquantes abuses of the rights of the human .
the memory of the Holocaust should provide the schedule necessary to a careful active in the racism and the Canadian haine .
we do we are the feuilleter each day , papers to take my the actions evil the people upon the side darkness of the existence human .
honourable senators , the the the the time . mouths the surviving , he we do the subject of the lessons of the Holocaust the quality of Parliament , the leaders of the community and also the members of the race human .
if I can I would a little time , mired , honourable senators , you decreases that the three provinces , the 264 a Day of comm?moration the the Holocaust are directed by the Liberal Party , progressive .
i hope that the government , embo?tera soon the not and will the Canadian Francophonie the comm?moration the the Holocaust a day national the recueillement .
the Olympics Olympics special
Ottawa - Effect Games the winter the the year 2000
the Honourable Janis Johnson :
honourable senators , I wish to you wish to the one event a , because we ajournerons probably this week .
i the objective of the Canadian member of the Foundation . the Olympics Olympics special the the Canada and the voluntary the long date .
the event , I speak grant five days , the Middle du25 January 2000 , when the city of Ottawa and the region . the capital national will the host of the Olympics Olympics special the winter Canadian .
some 32,600 athletes and 200 entra?neurs initiatives the world . the Canada for the " the games .
some 32,600 parents and 1 200 volunteers initiatives also support the athletes .
the Olympics Olympics special the are already accountable a time to Ottawa , in 1981 , when we have hearts the games of the .
this time , this , he is acting , that the the sports the winter .
we assisterons , the Canadian and roll the NHL alpin , the thrill artistic , the aerials and the raquette .
many of the us charge a great esteem the Canadian , the the Olympics Olympics special , but the the world . know that the the games are the the events sports the high counting the , by their confidence soaring , could argue the nearest with the important what warming athl?tique .
this is that the independents the doctor Frank Salter , the the University McMaster , the the work , and the Canadian , the the conditionnement physical .
you , rappellerez the - be the famous program of five exercises the conditionnement physical that he was the " the point with the Aviation Royal Canadian .
the doctor Salter not partageait not the opportunity generally widespread that the children d?ficients psychiatric , and the late the chronic , were unable to participate in the sports and the the program of unpaid .
in soumettant a group of children , a program intense the conditionnement physical , the doctor Salter the commissioner that the d?ficients psychiatric could encouraging enough to Paralympians to the status of the the Paralympics athl?tiques the level international .
he has reported based the Olympics Olympics special .
the Olympics Olympics special the are held to the first time , 1968 the Soldier Field , the qualifying , and the games rely now , the one million . come to 140 country .
these three benefits are still accrus by the P.E.I. and the support of a Dreadnought .
i ask the all the honourable senators , try to attend the the one of the activities of the Olympics Olympics special to the years of the week , the 25 January .
they will very impressionn?s by the determination and the h?ro?sme the our athletes .
i have attended the one of the Canadian . doing , the the Canada and the the foreign .
the my opinion , the Olympics Olympics special symbolisent the maximize the person to the game and the francophone the the body and the the spirit of the " which the determination , as the RCAF our athletes .
the Place of the Olympics Olympics special is very eloquent .
he is read the the beginning of each of the games by a chap the allume then the Flame Olympic .
the Place that section :
do that I earner , if the remarks that I went boldest in my belief .
honourable senators , I hope you see the the games .
visitor the Gallery
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I would draw the presence in our gallery of our colleague and friend recently retrait?e , the Honourable Senator Marian Maloney .
official languages
introduction of the second report ducomit? Joint Committee
the Honourable Rose - Marie Losier - Cool , co - the committee Joint Committee of the Official Languages , the the report following :
the traditional p.m. December 1998
the Committee Joint Committee of the Official Languages the the honour to present its
REPORT REPORT
the Committee Joint Committee of the Official Languages the report , the the 7 December 1998 , resolution next :
he THEREFORE BE , the Nuu the Committee Joint Committee of the Official Languages the the Senate and the Canadian House of the House of the opinion that the legislative legislation . the Ontario should consider the seaway legislation , the Canadian city of Ottawa , much of the Canada has both languages official , the English and the French .
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Cool - Cool , the study of the report is placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
the Act , and the inclusion of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
report revised the the committee
the Honourable Peter A . Stollery :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , I wish to the French revised the the fifth report of the committee on the Canadian and business foreign , to the the bill to the C - 4 , the Canadian and the inclusion of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil .
the Canadian and why technical , the comments which would have the whim in our report , the vice the the jeudi9 December 1998 , followed omises by inadvertent .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the traditional p.m. December 1998
the Committee on the Canadian and business foreign the the honour to present its
fifth REPORT R?VIS?
your committee , which has been examined the bill to the C - 4 , the fact the in politics of the Agreement agreement between the government . the Canada , the governments of the members of the Agency spatiale European , the government . the Japan , the government . the Federation of Russia and the government . the - United the North the Canadian cooperation respecting the Canadian Station spatiale international civil and retired the the changes related to the other Acts , the , pursuant to the Order of Reference of the 1 December 1998 into obedience bill to the and the fact , report . amendment , but with the comments following :
the committee would be two points specific that inevitably .
first , the committee is providing interested in the the motion of regulations that the Governor in the high to the the application of the present Bill and the giving the " the Agreement and b ) : Code of conduct the state of command of command being the the astronautes the Canadian Record spatiale .
the committee , concerned , the scope missing the Canadian section regarding the opinion of the Parliament , the the article 10 , the bill to the C - 4 , the the the government . the Canada , by the through the the Agency spatiale Canadian , he r?f?re the regulations and the code of conduct directly , as the people will exclude , after the first was released in the Gazette of the Canada .
second , the rule 11 ) 2.34 )
the " no , " to Canadian flight element the awarding in the French version of the rule 11 ) 2.31 )
b ) .
the government . the Canada , in the bill to the Canadian from the right to the delegation , should clarify the rule 11 ) 2.31 )
the Canadian deal of concern to the committee to this regard .
respectfully submitted ,
the adjournment
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 58 ( 1 ) at ) the the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate adjourns today , the the remaining adjourned until the near , the 1998 at December 1998 , the 13 at 1:30 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
bill to the Act , Trade final nisga' the
first Reading
the Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that he has received the the Commons . message informed the the bill to the C - 9 , the fact the in effect of the Agreement final nisga' the .
( the bill to the motion read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . second time ?
the Honourable Jack Austin :
with the leave , the Canadian next sitting of the Senate .
the Hon. the Speaker :
leave granted , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , quiet , he is a notice of two days before the way to the debate on the reading of the second reading and , if I understand , the Canadian leave of whom it matter . is not granted .
the second reading of the bill to the would then on the the Order of the Order of the Chair of Thursday next .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the consent the nine , the second reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the Chair of the Thursday 16 d 99 .
the Honourable Marcel Prud ' s
honourable senators , if such is the desire to the Senate , the - be we , we do the consent unanimous to the Donna with the bill to the the the summer into the one way , section of the other place ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
is the the Canadian agreed , honourable senators , for the Canadian second reading of the bill to the Senate on the the Order of the Order of Thursday next , the 16 d 99 ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed and the second reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the Chair of the Thursday 16 d 99 . )
bill to the Canadian ambassador No. 2 to 99 - 2000
first Reading
the Hon. the Speaker informed that he has received the the Commons . message informed the the bill to the C - 21 , the fact licensing the Queen Majesty the credits to the board public federal , the fiscal the Main 31 March 2000 .
( the bill to the motion read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . second time ?
the delegation to the session Annual the 1998 meeting of Amsterdam , the the Netherlands - speaking , p the the report
the Honourable Rompkey Rompkey :
honourable senators , I have the honour to table the third report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - NATO the reductions the Canada , the 45e session Annual Conference , Amsterdam ( Netherlands - speaking ) , the the clearing the the 15 November 99 .
the recommendations of the board Royal the the Aboriginal Peoples the Canadian public policy aboriginal
notice of Motion During the committee , the Aboriginal Peoples the deadline the date of thirteen the Hon. the final
the Honourable Charlie Watt :
honourable senators , I give notice that colloquium , the 15 December 1998 , I move :
that , by terrorism the the Order adopted by the Senate 24 November 99 , the Committee on the Canadian and aboriginal Peoples be authorized to do a study and the present a report on the recommendations of the board Royal the the Aboriginal Peoples ( Document Parliamentary No. 2 / 35 - 508 . )
the " the basis government aboriginal and , the particular , the information the point of the Canadian and aboriginal Peoples and the the other sponsors the the issues should :
2 . the statutory to the the comptrollership the the new relations structurelles ;
3 . the models of self government aboriginal to the answer to the needs of the Aboriginal Peoples and the concorder with the new relations structurelles ;
that the Committee be authorized to table the report final the the most later , 16 February 2000 , and that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the premature the the results of the study contained in the report final , and the date au29 February 2000 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practical consequently , the table the report of the the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate . " no , and that obedience report be deposited have been tabled the the Senate .
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the business Intergovernmental
the bill to the Act , clarity of the process referendum - Effect guideline of the
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , the article 2 . ( 2 ) the the bill to the Act , clarity of the process referendum " and considered that the House of the House of Chartered to determine whether a majority clear the utmost the are affected to the 237 the the Quebec .
you , rappellerez that the Canadian the last referendum , 49,6p. per - and Quebecers the are affected in favour of the path of the Quebec Benefit the one that the partnership to the rest of the Canada .
50,4p. per - and Quebecers the are against the this option .
if the analysis of a little more closely . percentages the basis of the Small ethnic the the utmost , the data the Statistics Canada and the results by prepared to vote , the in so , the conclusion shared by the little about all the experts that 62p. per - and francophones the are affected in favour of the option sovereigntist and , the the unambiguous , seniors per - and anglophones and 98p. per - and allophones the are affected , the option of the Liberal Quebec .
considering the the French are the majority of the people of the Quebec , the the vote of the English and the the proportionate is concentr? only in some coastal d?termin?es the the Quebec , the Minister can the the us that if the in the Canadian a victory of the compound the the OUI the the ind?pendantistes - that I do research not the the first - the distribution ethnic and geographic the the vote will go to consideration at the the examination of the clarity of the majority of the constituents who is the growers in favour of this option ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , he is the two stages the first . , as the Court Supreme the the well pointed .
the Prime , the motion of lacked the Canadian . , and the bill to the motion enough attributes the the subject .
the second , the motion of majority clear , and the motion . the talking the Honourable Senator .
the courts , in his thorough and the the decision , the well taken due to the not trying to explore what considerations would have the consideration the the vote .
the bill to the talking the some factors the the will be the .
the bill to the not pr?juge not the the circumstances and not described not specifically to be the the will draw the limit , the so that the chamber have the minds to some time .
the this regard , the bill to the motion . " the act to the decision of the Court Supreme .
the senator Nolin :
honourable senators , the motion of the to the , in my preamble , I would have given the percentages .
no layman not the doctor that the majority desQu?b?cois French , 62p. per , the vote OUI the Canadian . the the Liberal Quebec in the the plebiscite of 1995 .
the the unambiguous , seniors per - and anglophones and 98p. per - and allophones the vote NON .
your bill to the not . - the not in the Canadian to the Canadian importance to the vote of the majority speaking that the one of the minority English and allophone ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the not diminish not in the bill to the Canadian to more of the " a part of the electorate the particular .
some terms will undergo the the time , the assessment of the quality of the majority .
some of these terms are contained in the bill to the , and the other . the are not .
it is occurring by the fact that the not be expected what considerations enhanced the line of the .
however , the bill to the rules clear a review public . all the factors .
the importance , the motion that all the utmost , what the Senate . was ethnic , the power to express clear , by a majority clear , and that this majority the the result of a question clear that their the summer raised .
the senator Nolin :
honourable senators , a majority clear that would the it is a majority of each of the middle ethnic the Canadian public . the Quebec ?
the senator Finestone :
honourable senators , I - I , demanded the second class ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I hesitant , by allowing , the basis to the displaced the percentages specific to reply this issue .
memory the the opinion of the Court Supreme , the bill to the rules that the " will be the Canadian and circumstances existing the the time , a future referendum , the the agreements the Children political , the time , that the
we are that the tyranny have the
however , that the motion . the question .
i the said , the bill to the not to stop not the the principle of the opinion of the Court Supreme , the rules that , the the time appropriate , the Children political terms . the potential a majority asset .
the bill to the adoption . specifically some of the factors the the will the fact .
the Honourable Jean - Claude Rivest :
honourable senators , in the the concerns of the Canadian the unity national , I missions to the Minister that the the history recent the the Canada , the only way effective the fight the s?paratisme the the Quebec is to the government . the Canada . the one vision the the reports of the Quebec and the whole of the corporation Canadian .
i am , refers to the time , Lester B . Pearson or the Brian Mulroney , the the rate of B.C. , the s?paratisme the darkest the 20 , per cent .
historically , the the Quebec , he is the in both ways to the parties sovereignists or separatists the attempt to obtain the symbolic the the utmost the the idea of the independence : the seaway referendum to obtain a majority of OUI the Canadian . and the rich the representatives of the Assembly national the the years of a election , as the Canadian 1966 with the RIN , and the 1970 and the somewhat with the Liberal Quebec , Ren? L?vesque .
the this second option , the government sovereigntist elected would risk to a statement of sovereignty .
the present Bill , the Canadian the government . treating the Canadian the seaway referendum .
that arriverait - the " the unity of the Canada , a party sovereigntist the the Quebec became the Canadian proposal of Ren? L?vesque the the beginning of the years 70 , the motion ? " - that the the election of a government . the Liberal Quebec , the motion of the clear sovereigntist , impliquerait , the one solution majority of Commons , the Assembly national , the implementation of inclusion of the separation of the rest of the Canada ?
the bill to the not the way that the above .
the honourable show the character saugrenu the the intervention of the government , in the debate , in this first opportunity , the Liberal Quebec said that the the election of a government sovereigntist and the mandate of the people , he dissimilar to the independence , as it is the fact , ratified and the somewhat .
they not have not win , but it was the program .
the this assumption , the government , adopterait - the one bill to determine the nature of the strongest - 98 campaign the the Liberal Quebec to clarify the option the Canadian sovereignty ?
you meaning why the Government of the government ' s . not accepted by the whole of the stakeholders to the Quebec and why it is saugrenue .
why the government ' s representations to the Hon. opinion , as the motion , the Canadian the make ?
he is the " the honest that he the report because the the motion of ours the Canadian the unity national .
that he does the the Assembly national and , particularly to the Liberal Party of the Quebec , the door - speaking federalist the the land Quebec , the field of the Canadian battle the Canadian lacked the Canadian . and the Canadian d?finiton the Canadian portion .
it lend the one way . the mechanics the option federalist and the option of the unity Canadian .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the question of the Honourable Senator is enough complex , as a his length that the the nature .
the Prime Minister of the Quebec . said that he has the intent of the one another referendum when the conditions winners will Part .
he is clear that , in the the citizens did and that the federal responsibility , we must meet the this statement .
this is the government proposes is a and completion .
he we do the other the Prime Minister of the Quebec , the word .
the the amount of the plebiscite , we must be to the the problem . the clear and that he valid , the the right to a majority clear that the power to the
i do see no how anyone the the Quebec or the " the Canada could the affair the that the
the Prime Minister of the Quebec . the the not the intent of questions . the clear ?
the the the intent of that put ?
what is the aspect to the fair ?
if I am recall , the the Prime Minister of the Quebec . praising this decision .
a the the evidence basic the this decision is that the people of the Canada and the government . the Canada . a role in harmony .
personally , I d?testerais , the government . exempt the Hon. the .
the senator Rivest :
honourable senators , the Minister . related to the government ' s announcement of that the the time , this because the the Prime Minister of the Quebec . said amendments to a referendum .
why the very hon. Pierre Elliott Trudeau , after the course Ren? L?vesque that , the the next , the election in 1976 , the the hard to a referendum on the path , not the the not taking the present , he is the wharfinger the the unity national , a bill to the to determine the parameters of the question and the Canadian portion ?
the very hon. Pierre Elliott Trudeau not the - the not also intending the the unity Canadian and the Canadian protection of the interests of the whole of the Canadian that the present Prime Minister of the Canada ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the Prime Minister Trudeau the concern looking the the unity Canadian .
however , we take the one in the , apparently with the approval of the Prime Minister of the Quebec and certainly the Hon. counterpart the the Canada , the Court Supreme the ?clairci this issue as never that the the motion . in our history .
we do we not such a the last time ; we , we now .
if I am recall , the the motion of the the the positive the harbour of the Prime Minister of the Quebec .
in his decision , the Court Supreme the investigator some criteria . priority .
it is the " the government , a chance reasonable the context these issues in a perspective clear , then , we do we ourselves not in full battle referendum .
in large , the government preserve the two points little , but basic .
if a province whatever , and not only the Quebec , if the grain the the Canada , he was to question . the clear to his people and to a response clear .
it is true , the the the cheques the the Alberta , the Canadian British - British or the Canadian Nova Scotia Nova and , certainly , no . cannot be more specific .
however , the government , not . not the Canadian to the the conditions not have not respected .
the senator Rivest :
honourable senators , I have a question Supplementary the question .
the Minister could the the us provide the spark of the judgment of the Court Supreme the the Canada , the " the Parliament Canadian of court ?
is the the the the judgment of the Court Supreme the the Canada , the said that the the Minister has the " , and I , putting welcome , the strength of the " the Canada ?
the basis . not allow Jean Charest and the Liberal Party of the Quebec thoughts this battle and repeated the the government . the Quebec , the the "
the bill to the country . Consequently in the decision of the Court Supreme the the Canada .
we do we not need to the bill to the achievements Dion .
the senator Boudreau :
this is that a point different , honourable senators ,
if a person , the us not in the not need or the the time chosen to the present . the not , it does the clear to the the not there has not the Star .
the Court Supreme the indicated , clearly that he is the Canadian and considered the the need to the .
i am certainly a pleasure , it is copy of the decision of the Court Supreme the the Honourable Senator .
the senator Ghitter :
r?pondez the Canadian . "
the senator Boudreau :
this bill to the critical that the two parties have the the responsibility .
the government . the Canada has clearly dual his responsibilities with the bill to the .
the government , the fact know his position to the people of the country . the way . reasonable and the indicated the factors the the the comprehensive to determine whether the conditions down in the decision of the Court Supreme are respected .
these factors would , insofar to the citizen of the important what province Canadian , would the other a decision clear , if the the request of the other in the future .
the Court Supreme
the terminologie the Canadian decision on the Committee Covenant the the plebiscite
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the the years of the short series of the the the summer raised the " now , the subject , I have indeed , the Leader of the government to the Senate . used 10 , the word " the " in Yiddish the the opinion , by the Court Supreme the the Canada .
the my opinion , if we must deal of a question of a vital , leads , we must be very careful and very precise in the way , we employons the words .
the Minister . the - the not the the Committee on the the government . the Canada , the Court Supreme sollicitait not . the decision , but rather a notice ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , as the said , honourable senator , he is a the one referred and the Court Supreme the the Canada has given a notice , I , putting .
this is a notice of the summer . welcomed the the time , the Prime Minister of the Quebec .
the Transportation
the Nova Scotia Nova Scotia - Commitment the the government , the face the four put the road EH
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I wish to the us will get these helicopters .
i wish to the the the Minister of the Transport and the chairman of Onex are now , the
however , I thought that the Minister disorderly a little more the question next .
as the Minister of the , he seems to have a certain confusion in the the concerns of commitments federal level of the assistance to make the Canadian Nova Scotia Nova to the Friends the four put the Canadian traffic EH the lumber the Mackenzie the the Annapolis .
the Minister could the the extent to the Senate what undertaking the summer the " the respect to our province , this regard ?
the the not the not a response immediate , he would be the be prepared to us pass a response written the most earlier can .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I will certainly would the Canadian the Minister of the Transport to the the in the the things .
i have attended recently , a meeting the the subject . was spoken by the Minister and , except mistake , a member of the other place , a the region . the .
as the Honourable Senator the record by experience , the choice of the bills highway field of the federal Provincial .
the government provincial version the priorities then the the credits federal .
the government , due to the the highways , the Canadian the list of priority established by the government provincial .
i believe that the Minister has indicated that he ?tudierait the - be a break the arguments of the government provincial .
in the , some provisions special can be taken .
however , the question , the no wonder the the kind . the summer senior to the date .
i am this confirmation the entire reserve , because I do I do the " the Minister of this has a week and processes .
the Finance
the distribution of supply the the CHST the the Pension the pension of the Canada . the Canadian federalist the the wedding
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
a single the the five , the ever been mentioned in the release of deferred the the government and the was the decision of up to seek the the average of the government that the credits to the CHST the the CPP are divided the Canadian , the Canadian federalist the the wedding , as the bill . the .
too often , it is the product . , the so that is required to the words of the bill .
the us that the the governments federal and provincial trying to the problem . the .
no . the difference the the years of the two years in the
the Leader of the government would the the " to the Senate , the " to examine the possibilit?x is a way ?l?gante the " to the - be the position , the - be the only to the
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I do know that the extent to the government and , the particular , the Minister of the Finance , at this issue .
however , I am very pleased to me information and the specific a response to the senator .
the senator Oliver :
i thank the Leader of the government .
honourable senators , as the Minister of the , the most of the health live their past years in the poverty , after the demeur?es the the home for the their astonishment was the the market . the work , and they not receive no pension .
the Leader of the government would the the us bring the the information on both the point ?
first , the - the " to the Senate what is the state right to the Senate exploratoires and the the bill pilot requires ?
second , the - the us that it , both years , later , the problem . the ever not been solved , particularly to the women who have worked the the home , and the " the foreign ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I would delighted to add the other coastal the information .
the health
the possibility of a settlement the the following the soft the the soft
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , a series of articles articles in The Ottawa Citizen are the Canadian a matter of the soft the motion presently the the study the health Canada .
he is a the WTO or not to the EH the soft drinks the state of the soft the Canadian and drinks such as LaChance Dew .
this spring , the Senate . adopted . the unanimous a motion to this regard , and the shadow of articles raises the new questions .
i wish to raise some of acknowledgement .
first , the Leader of the government to the Senate may , he indicate whether , yes , but , the government bonds the motion of the Senate . the Act . the regulatory at the funeral the following the soft the the soft drinks the agrumes as the " no . not sure that the health of the Canadian , including the children and the young , not in funding not ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I thank the Honourable Senator the the question .
the question , the the not . not the in the time , change the political government to this regard , but I will I enqu?rir the Canadian the Minister of the health to the be the Order in the matter .
the request of a study on the effects of the soft
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , a report go to the Minister , but we , we wrote a number of the correspondence , in the sillage the this resolution , the enjoignant the not do to the Canadian . " the " non .
the the GST , the , the the officials officials of Health Canada . said that they not dream not the numbers of the requirements of caffeine that the Canadian ing?rent have the consommant the the soft drinks , the the chocolat , the the fate and the the th? - the all sources .
they say that the most that two options .
they can the proud to the data that their judgments the industry or develop the worst scenario .
i think that he is the the one third .
they can ask the Statistics Canada . the specific the the data the basis .
the Honourable Minister could the the authority to the Minister of the health of demanding the testimony of a source impartiale to determine whether the health of the Canadian will compromised or not ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I do know that the the fair , the Honourable Senator the the the requirement found on the risks of Statistics Canada .
the senator Spivak :
yes , to the establishing the data the basis .
the senator Boudreau :
in the , I believe that the motion in the Canadian health and information to ask .
i do know that the the fair the in the the Senate , but I will I shall .
i will convey the request of the Honourable Senator .
the senator Spivak :
thank .
the delay in the publication of the report scientific
the Honourable Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , for the Canadian precision , I draw the view , the previous The in - Gazette of the Canada , the proposal of Pepsi - Cola would unequivocally , but that the perpetrator audacieusement that no consideration . the summer the and that the objective Main is the harmonize LaChance Dew , by the , the Canadian formula American .
as the the record , a canette the LaChance Dew contains the Canadian caffeine that many tasses the fate .
after the role in the hockey , the young , there was my small - child , not attacked not the difficulty the other a boisson to zero such as LaChance Dew .
we will now , using the good doses of caffeine .
the soft is a psychotrope and should be ?tiquet?e the so that commercial .
the entire the , the report of the committee , scientists who does the the Minister was the preamble mistake , the speech , July the .
the Honourable Minister could the the happy why , if the report be a complete the July , he not the not yet been made public ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
i am pleased to me information on this place on the the name of the Honourable Senator .
the the the motion of the TAGS the the question , he is still establish a balanced of the degree of Regulations the the dark human by the government and the freedom of choice .
i agree the legitimacy of the concern to the Honourable Senator , but I do think that the us are on the point of court order to ban the the relatively the access to the Tim Horton .
the senator Spivak :
honourable senators , I do I do to this point . In .
we do we not in the Canadian to a measure legislation .
we find the protection our young children , the following the one drug psychotrope the one does the people drink .
he is the number of things as it .
he not to a not the one solution ; it is a the prevention in the public . the health of the young children .
he not be not sign the two .
the senator Boudreau :
i understand the point raised by the senator .
however , as I , I mentioned , he is the one thing balance the objective .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , before the giving the honourable the the senator Kinsella , I wish to the the will the last the permise the the years of this period of the .
the fishery and the Oceans
the RCCs crab - Effect replacement of croisi?re the the first ministers
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the summer the , the Laurier Humphrey Gilbert the Canadian Guard crab the the Canada has kidnappers the Prime Minister Tobin and the members of the cabinet , croisi?re the long - and MLAs the Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
the CHST the Minister of the Canadian Nova Scotia Nova , the Minister is the the loan to do the the Income the the kind of the Prime Minister Hamm and his colleagues , the years of the summer next ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , but only will the I turn the request of the senator , but I wish to the government personally that I do take the the kind of this .
answers delayed the Canadian and the control
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I have a response to the question raised in the Senate . 24 November 99 by the senator Oliver regarding the Upholder the great Polish by the the business American , a response to the issues raised in the Senate . 30 November 99 by the honourable Spivak and Andreychuk regarding the Manitoba , the loss of information places , the transfer of information personal and the principle of the consent for the safety of the data personal , a response to a question raised in the Senate . 6 December 1998 , the senator Andreychuk regarding the failure of the discussions , the Organization World of the trade the Canadian . the the grants agricultural the the United the and the assistance to the farmers Canadian , and finally , on the one issue raised in the Senate . 8 December 1998 , the senator Kenny the the status of the Museum commemorative the the Holocaust .
the economy
the Upholder the great Polish by the the business American - Government Policy the the government
( response to the question raised by the Donald H . Oliver : 24 November 99 )
certainly , the snowy the business Canadian , the the foreign the way of the magnitude these games time , but it would be the arrival the most long term .
the investment direct Canadian , the foreign the are accrus the the the investment foreign to the Canada for the years 90 , the the point that , today , the the Canadian facilities more of investment direct the the foreign that the foreign not in facilities the the Canada .
the rate of change . a the the many factors the resulting the foreign to invest in the Canada .
in the , the increase recent the the snowy the business Canadian , the the foreign the co?ncid? with a raffermissement the the dollar Canadian .
in the Canadian the , in a world where the " the fact competition to publicize the the $ the investment , the investment direct foreign to the Canada is a step the confidence in our economy .
the investment direct
Canadian , the foreign
the investment foreign
moreover , the Canada
billion . $
billion . $
98T1
8,1
7,8
98T2
6.3
Multicentre
98T3
14,9
8,3
98T4
10,2
4.7
99T1
4,5
visible
election Canada
the Manitoba - Government loss of information places - Conformity transfer of information personal - Conformity principle of the consent - Effect procedures of security the the data personal
( response to the issues raised by the Honourable Mira Spivak and the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk the 30 November 99 )
the government . is committed to protect the information personal and , the particular , the the government that the information relating to the people are only used and ever , Conformity with the bill .
election Canada does this commitment .
the prospects the record of the constituents , 1962 Canada has asked the opinion of a number of expert , the most of the Commissariat the Canadian protection of the life private the the Canada .
the meeting of the list campaign require the the information that election Canada " the the government , and the the governments provincial and territorial .
the suggestions government federal ) the knowledge Revenue Canada and Immigration and Immigration Canada ) . transmettent the information personal that the the consent of the knowledge .
the information . consent , Revenue Canada has provided , in the risks of statement of the income , a submit in the " makes the the " hear , the the some information on behalf , my , piled the birth ) be releases the election Canada .
the new Canadians can indicate the Canadian , the in their the Canadian Parents that they desire to the transfer of some information personal the election Canada .
election Canada has also reached with the suggestions government provincial and territorial ( a leadership , the constituency of the vehicle vehicle and the constituency of the state Civil ) the the agreements dealing the sending the information to the Canadian and the Order of the record of the constituents .
these agreements sending the the opportunity to the licence is sit in sending this kind of information .
the question of the consent is therefore determined by the legislation . into the the provinces and territories .
the bill includes the the information passed to election Canada . the be used to the Canadian and for expenses .
the Canadian protect the information definition in the record of the constituents , 1962 Canada has the beginning of the Canadian the record of the constituents , the in the Canadian and systems the Parliaments complex ( a the the pr?pos?s or by the the average technical ( , and travelling the the procedures , document?es the treatment of the data .
the following the Canadian Grain the Canadian bunch enclosing the information obtenue respect to the Information manitobains , 1962 Canada has grown a company of security independent of whether all the issues of the procedures , the Canadian transfer of bunch magn?tique .
the commissioner to the protection of the life private the the Canada , Mr. Bruce Phillips , the LAVs his own the .
he is the said , with the the findings of the integrity .
the following the Canadian and circumstances surrounding this incident , he not the no doubt that the loss of the band is the result of a simple mistake human , the ?critM. Phillips .
i am sure that election Canada has made various the to avoid a situation similar to the future , and I do believe that the the necessity forward to the recommendations additional to the moment . "
he is important to note that the commissioner to the protection of the life private , the the various sources appel?es the help to the implementation of the Canadian the record of the constituents are habilit?es the first time to ask a review the " the government that the provisions divesting the collection , the emmagasinage , the actualisation and the use of the data delivered to election Canada signed , the right to the life private the the constituents .
the trade internationally
the failure of the discussions , the Organization World of the trade , - granting agricultural the the United the - Conformity the " and producers Canadian
( response to the question raised by the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk the 6 December 1998 )
the government . the Canada is committed to construct a system of handling and the transportation of the grain , strong and the effective and the increase the responsibility to the producers , the way , in benefit more .
the objective that the government . is set is the resulting the the the the producers necessitates the the changes alter the the system of handling and the transportation , on the the recommendations of the Krever Estey and the the proposals Mr. Arthur Kroeger .
he is the point that the government . the Canada has always address , the " the long - that process , the one attention particular to be granted to the need to do take the producers of the benefits of a system . commercial and the competitive .
the Minister of the Transport , the Honourable David Collenette , the positive the reports the the stakeholders and the recommendations Mr. Kroeger the September the .
the Minister of the Transport , the police with the Minister responsible for the board Canadian of the Wheat and the Minister of the Agriculture and the the Agroalimentaire , the career of the the reports in the Canadian determine the best way of implanter a system of character the commercial .
the government consider carefully the report of the stakeholders and the recommendations Mr. Kroeger , the same that the results of the Senate on the issues related to the ports , the Canadian distribution of the engine - tr?mies and the Canadian redress the the highways before the way to the implementation of the Canadian a whole of daily .
the Heritage
the status of the Museum commemorative the the Holocaust
( response to the question raised by the Honourable Colin Kennyle 8 December 1998 )
the government is aware that the the direction of a new millennium , the Canadian and the health be a lot of the crimes committed , the betterment , as the Holocaust , and understand the lessons of the past .
nor the government , or the Department of the Heritage Canada , not to the highest the jobs a Museum of the Holocaust .
the " and discussions regarding the needs of local the the Museum Canadian of the war , the the officials of the Department of the Heritage Canada . " , the the name of the Minister , the the Museum Canadian of the eventual , the lead the the consultation to the basis of stabilization the Canadian homage the Holocaust and the other g?nocides .
however , the calendar of these consultations not the not been set .
the the the government claiming the importance of the Province of offending tragic committed , the betterment the the century century , the role in the comm?moration national the the Holocaust and the the other g?nocides not the not been committed .
on business orders
the Act , and the implementation of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
third reading of Suspended the the debate
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable - the " and senators , the Canadian motion ?
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , the first , the the bill to the C - 4 is a bill to the inoffensif , d?licieux the , the credit the support Stan. the the two party represented the the Senate .
this is a measure the legal the end of the the agreements international that the Canada has signed on the cooperation respecting the Canadian Record spatiale .
the the world . " . the support the principle basic the the bill to the .
the - the the summer adopted prestement the the other place , several times of debate and a review by the committee , the House of the House .
i support , as the principle of the bill to the .
however , God or the devil know that the us reserving the details .
i have looked a look the look the the bill to the one first time when he has been submitted , a review quick of the committee on the Canadian and business foreign .
the the hearings of the committee , I have asked to the officials officials of the government why he was necessary to have the approval of the Parliament , the the improvements international could be implemented in the Act , only approval of the cabinet .
why ?
the the the agreement for the the United the administration , and credited officers , ?tende the Canadian Record spatiale and the the Polish the switching and the horror of the publisher spatiale .
honourable senators , I am r?f?re . " the article 1811 of the bill to the the existence the Code offence and the the article 22 the the Agreement to analyze the unrest the this the Competition the country . .
i have discovered that the United the incluaient the Union European , the United - United , the Canada , the Japan and the Russian , and that the legislation p?nales the individual the the United the historical .
the honourable senators , remember the the amendments that I had moved to the bill to the C - 40 , the Act , the extradition , seconded by my colleague the senator Joyal , to the ?ter the the Minister of the Justice the power counterweight in the case of the CCN the extradition from the United the the accused the be sentenced the Canadian only to death .
the only one has been lifted the the Canada . there has roughly the three decades .
after a debate in the and properly form , these amendments they were pertinent to the Senate .
the honourable senators , remember that the honourable the the side - the Canadian the House of literature the consignes the the whip of the Liberal .
the bill to the C - 4 ressuscite the same , the same . the subject of the amendments pertinent in the case of the bill C C - 40 .
the Minister of the Justice Access the power counterweight the Whole or not the information of the protection of a state . , not require the only one of the the extradition , by the , the one Canadian continued to murder .
i have the out of Government ingrate in the motion of the Minister of the Justice the right conclusion , a question of life or the death , the Canadian law Canadian is clear - the no condemnation the Canadian only one .
this power beware the GST now , the space atmosph?rique with the bill to the C - 4 .
we a speaker .
suppose that a Canadian is simply the have made a murder in the publisher spatiale .
a declaration is also accused of the mistake a murder in the publisher spatiale .
the Canada and all the country , the the Union European the near the only one .
the publisher spatiale the summer lanc?e the basis of the Texas , a state the Canadian only one . the not been lifted .
the ancient not be not be extrad? the the Texas , the least , this the not give the the country member of the Union European the question of cash that the only one . will not application .
in contrast , our Minister of the Justice would the power counterweight the Whole or not the extrader the Canadian with the fault guarantee that the only to death . will not application .
honourable senators , the Court Supreme the summer fall of this issue , the window the Canadian , Rafay and Burns the us we heard during our debate on the bill to the C - 40 .
in this matter , the Minister of the Justice was prepared to extrader to the Texas two young Canadians , adding years charged the crimes punissables the death , the the assurance that the only to death . would not application in their the .
it was contrary to the article 7 , the Charter of the rights . that the some judges of the Court of Appeal of the British - British were also the this notice .
the case , now , the Canadian a call the Canadian Court Supreme the the Canada , the the voice the notice October 1998 .
the week , the " the committee , the business foreign , the the officials we have said that , by a guideline enough unusual , the Court Supreme the requested the suggested to get the plaidoiries .
the result , the question raised in the amendment that the Senate had wanted to remove the the bill to the C - 40 , and the the summer rejected the the Senate , is still to the study the Canadian Court Supreme the the Canada , although the the context of the facts ties the this case , particularly .
is why I am I saw the part of the study , by section of the committee and that the basis I have the intent of the not participate in the study the the reading of the report and the Canadian third reading .
why the doubt the the place . to a place amendment ?
the officials we have said that the government has the intent of the the amendments documentation if the Court Supreme wants to limit the generous the the Minister .
the Court Supreme should we offer . soon .
if the government is still press? the act to the time . , I am confident record , conventions this bill to the strange and if incoh?rente when the Court Supreme the the Canada . will removal .
i am abstiens and I want to the Canadian the Court Supreme ; I hope that the government Glenney with adequate for petty the the Minister of the Justice this civility . " the anachronique and unfair .
the Honourable Serge Joyal :
honourable senators , the bill to the C - 4 , the Canadian and the implementation of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil , I concern to the most colourful the .
i am grateful to the senator Grafstein , the increased this issue of my attention , the I participais the the study of the bill C S - 10 , the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional .
the provisions down the the article 1811 of the bill C C - 4 treatment of the respond on the power to the Minister of the Justice of Recombinant the extradition of nationals Canadian to the the United the Canadian only to death is determined the be summarized .
the article 1811 of the bill to the existence the article 7 , the Code offence by the following the new provisions , for the Canadian expand the application of the Code offence to the publisher spatiale international .
the new rule ( 2.31 )
from criminal Code specific . the following :
he , result that the federal criminal the the Canada . spread now , the new Record spatiale international .
in addition , it is concerned , cooperative with at the country in the part of the agreement international trade the publisher spatiale .
the result , the 14 other states participating concur the the provisions similar in their right p?nal .
the article 1811 of the bill to the C - 4 there is the same question of TAGS that the rule 42 ( 2 ) the the bill to the C - 40 the last of the last session , the knowledge of the discretionary the the Minister of the Justice of command the extradition that the Canadian only to death is being .
that the , the people extrad?es the the Canada . benefit of any protection against the only to death .
as you , in recall , I have set the principles basic the - revealed to my position on the question essential to the only to death to the spring the , when the Senate . held the bill to the C - 40 , the bill to the extradition .
during the debate on the third reading of the bill to the , I have seconded a subamendment proposed by the senator Grafstein , would required to the Minister of the Justice legal a promise of the state requ?rant as the the fact that the only to death . would not inflig?e or the , if it . was the it is an not a " enforcement .
the only to death would rather chang?e the only to seeing the life removal , the Canadian bombing Earl .
he is , the I , totally incorrect and reverse the Canadian section of the article 7 , the Charter Canadian of the rights and Freedoms the lurch the life or the death of a Canadian , the generous the one of the Canadian Crown .
these issues important , now , the Canadian the case Rafay and Burns , the the summer voice this year , the Court Supreme the the Canada .
this matter , as you , in recall , the policy , the decision of the Honourable Allan Rock , P , nowhere the extradition of two individuals Canadian of 18 years to a state of the United - United the people are inculp?s the murder and the people encourent the only to death .
in formulant his decision , Mr. Rock not the not them to the government that the part poursuivante in this the not requ?rrait not the only to death .
the decision of laCour Supreme not the not yet been made , but the ridiculous judges the scheduled that the case , the new entenduele 25 October 1998 .
in the testimony that he has made the traditional 7 December 1998 , the committee , the business foreign , Mr. Yvan Roy , lawyers General of the Section the Canadian political , the Canadian law p?nal the the Department of the Justice , the bloodstream that the power to a minister of the Justice of Recombinant the extradition suspensive the be a power counterweight full and the inspectors and that he not . not att?nu? by the bill to the C - 4 .
here is that the bodies Roy :
... the Minister of the Justice , the motion responsible for the application of the Act , the extradition , the turn of the one ascertain the Ninth when the conduct the the respect to the " the report of the Canadian extradition the the subject of court convergence the the Canada intent?es , this one .
Mr. . Roy the well known that the judgment the in the case Burns and Rafay maze the - be the Minister of demanding the the assurance before the cultivation the extradition in the kind of the
here is that he has said :
Mr. the chairman , you know that the Court Supreme the the Canada is currently fall of the question in the part of the case Burns and Rafay .
he is the very well , the will deal of the article the this bill to the fact that the the the Canadian Court Supreme the the Canada will the " if the only to death could be summarized in the country abroad .
the following the bill currently , a moment obligation . there is , but it becomes the - be the bill , the following the the state that brings .
honourable senators , the the the circumstances , and the government . the principles that I have already , the spring the , III the detail in the fact the Canadian the Senate on the question of the only to death , I do then , in the right conscience , vote in favour of the article 1811 of the bill to the C - 4 , the giving the " the agreement on the juridiction criminal shared the Canadian Station spatiale international civil .
the result , I wish to do know record that I have the intent of the doubt the vote , the motion of Social reading of the bill to the C - 4 will the " and Senators .
the Honourable Lucie pin :
honourable senators , I give notice that I am refrain the vote on the bill to the C - 4 , for the same reasons that the the people were shocking by the honourable senators Grafstein and Joyal .
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I do I bothersome not in this discussion raised by the honourable Grafstein and Joyal .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I wish to your indulgence .
i note that he is at 1:30 29 , and we have agreement of return to the time , this , the opinion of inquiry of the senator Gauthier to the the so to the honourable for 15 minutes .
i ask that the leave of return to the opinion of inquiry , is recorded the the name of the senator Gauthier and the concerns a report on the recent Summit of the Francophonie .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is the the Canadian agreed , honourable senators , to the move the inquiry No. 1 ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Andreychuk :
i remember the the honourable senators , the committee , the business foreign the positive the leave of sitting now .
the Hon. the Speaker :
i am sorry , Senator Andreychuk , but the leave the summer leave .
the senator Andreychuk :
i wish to the the instructions .
the Hon. the Speaker :
her the senator Stollery it . Stollery ?
the Senate . authorized the committee , the business foreign to the Whole to 15 at 1:30 today , the
that any , I am prepared to play the honourable the the senator Gauthier .
the Senate wish to the I take the honourable the the subject of this section of the Order of the Order now or the I , take the late to the attending to the Chair of the committee , the I am a member of the right to vote ?
i must deal this ?nigme all the duration and rising .
the senator Hays :
honourable senators , I do I do that the the Senate may help the senator Andreychuk .
this is the choice .
it is the entire clearly free of attending to the Chair of the committee , the Senate . authorized the committee to sit in the time that the .
i will be in the the Deputy the senator Andreychuk the avis?e when we reprendrons the debate on the bill to the C - 4 , the in relation minutes about the order that it can get to participate in the debate , such is the expressed .
the senator Andreychuk :
i will ask the one of my colleagues , to the adjournment of the debate in my name , I do I do here .
the senator Hays :
as we hope debate on the Canadian law C - 4 , today , I ask the the senator Andreychuk the other the honourable today , the
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , I am , the fact prepared to take the honourable , the senator Andreychuk , if it is the last one of the Canadian speak on this section of the Order of the Order .
the senator Andreychuk :
i will ask the adjournment in my name and to the honourable tomorrow .
the senator Hays :
i wish to us the guts today , the
the senator Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I do I do the intent of the one term speech on this issue .
we have borne discussed the Canadian only one of the time , the study of the Act , the extradition .
i have the clear know my opinion , the time , that , and I do I do changed the opinion .
i have agreement that he was none of the " the process of the in the Canadian the agreement on the publisher spatiale .
in determining , I believe that he not . not in the public public and that is not . not a good intentions Parliamentary that the northern the decision of the Court Supreme .
if the Court Supreme require the other measures legislation , the the in responding to time and the .
the the time , the bill is clear .
i the said , the question . was debated . the time , the study of the Act , the extradition .
i do I do changed the idea to this regard .
i wish thank the Department of the Justice and the committee for their excellent work respect to the article 1811 of the bill C C - 4 .
he is the one problem with the French version and I believe that the Canadian version French , before quite well .
we pass a bill criminal Canadian and the appliquons the Canadian Record spatiale .
the the words of the definition of the crew status of the Partner State the , the members of the crew are encouraged by our laws to a mere or a omission the " It committed to the case concern relationship related , the flight element provided by Canada , damages the Canadian flight element the .
he not there has no definition of the Canadian flight element the in the bill to the and the Department of the Justice the acknowledged that the so that d?finissait the " to flight element the , the the flight element provided by Canada , not . not necessarily the same thing that a " Give flight element the .
the so that it does the splitting the four to some , who , will be convention by a bill criminal not partageront not the point of the .
we must be very priority .
the human accus?e the one offence to the words of this bill looks of the provisions specific .
i have been pleased that the committee take my concerns . little .
the Department of ministers , in the next bill to the Canadian from the " will make the the clarification and manila a definition specific to the no one thing to our courts . the tolls in the uncertainty .
i thank the committee , it .
while the us we getting in the space and subsequent a right p?nal extraterritorial , he is extremely important that we might specific .
i have been pleased that the government and the Department of the Justice agreeable my point of the .
i will concur the this bill to the
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , for diversity the the the the fact the Senate right , the Senate had the Canadian leave of the the senator Gauthier .
this issue . was a " the study .
is the the the one another hon. Senator wish to the
the Senate . the Senate
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , when the senator Andreychuk the requested the honourable , the senator Gauthier . agreed to speak , it to respond to the expressed the attending to a meeting of the committee on the Canadian and business foreign .
i believe that the " the manner to the the senator Gauthier about the Canadian the inquiry The 1 placed in the name to the Order of the Order .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , he is the " the clear that we are we heard the conceiving the deliberations on the bill to the the motion to the time at the the reading of the third reading of the the senator Gauthier the Hon. inquiry .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave of the " and interpellations ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Summit of the Francophonie
inquiry - Adjourned the the debate
leave having been granted , the " the inquiry The 1 :
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier , with the opinion , Wednesday 13 October 1998 :
that he call the attention of the Senate on the recent Summit of the Francophonie , the motion of the Universit the the months of September the .
the Summit of the Francophonie , the in the " Moncton , the the New - New , the the beginning of the months of September captions a person of the Order of the least responsible .
unfortunately , the fireworks the Canadian rampe the are so affecting the the Senate that dramatic deal of various leaders of the University of the braquer the Canadian legality or the legitimacy of the presence of some people to the Summit .
as you the you , I have had the honour to insist the Canadian and two years in the the Assembly of the parliamentary the Canadian Francophonie .
i traiterai . " in the question , will the the role of the APF the Canadian the summit , for second deal of ?pineuse the Canadian the legitimacy and the Canadian ability to representation of a leader of the the would soup?onn? the have broken some rights . we brought to the Canada as basic and ?l?mentaires in the corporation free and democratic .
the Assembly Parliamentary the Canadian Francophonie , as you the you , is a link asset of the representations to the Francophonie and the effect French , since the legislative body of 47 sections the the public . the parliaments , United and communities French and 12 sections 2.4 .
moreover a significant work of reflection and the cooperation Inter , it involved in the implementation of the and the the strengthening of the institutions democratic and the the inevitable the point of Yesterday .
the Canadian the Summit of Maurice , the the months of October 1993 , after the r?affirm? the place imminente the the institution Parliamentary the the heart of the democracy cornerstone and the the state of the Canadian the summit , the the criteria that the APF , only organization Parliamentary the Canadian Francophonie , is the link democratic of the governments and the Aboriginal the Canadian Francophonie .
in determining , the the announcement of learning the APF as the Assembly consultative the Canadian Francophonie , the the the Fifth the Charter of the Francophonie , agreed to Hanoi the November 1997 , the Gabrielle , by the , the position of Secretary General of the Francophonie , editor Mr. Boutros Boutros - Ghali , former - Secretary General of the United .
the the end of Alternative with the Charter , the legislative the announcement , the Canadian , Charge average of Abidjan , in July 1998 , the feasibility the name of Assembly Parliamentary the Canadian Francophonie .
the CHST the Assembly consultative the the Summit , the Assembly Parliamentary the Canadian Francophonie . in the the Summit of Moncton the the years together the new chair , Mr. Nicolas Amougou Noma , the chairman of the Canadian the Assembly general , the diocese , the fact , will come to leaders of the and the government .
the the years of the intervention , Mr. blueberry Amougou Noma the part r?affirm? the commitment to the APF the Canadian democracy Parliamentary , the the state of the so that the Opposition to the transmission of the power by the strength of the weapons .
he has reminded the actions of Government of the APF , the children soldiers and the vote of the implementation of the fastest the Canadian future court criminal international .
the Assembly of the parliamentary the Canadian Francophonie support the decision taken in the the summit the jobs a observatoire the Canadian democracy , the it has always called the all its best and which it does to the wife , expertise of the parliamentary .
the APF the medical also the the favourable looks tell the Hon. the Canadian Airborne the one parliament the the young francophones , the Canadian and the place comes to welcome to fruition associated .
it has noted with great the public and statements of the Summit the Canadian diversity linguistic the vote of the it is the reluctant drew .
in contrast , it is the the the CEO the the global continuous been many years of the number of the Canadian the Francophonie , the the not . not the lowest of becoming a second Organization of the United Nations not more than a second Commonwealth .
the the future , the new adh?sions will be conditionn?es by the the commitments the the use of the French in the part of the relationship international and the the post .
finally , the APF remind the it is the in his departure that the Bloc parliamentarians ?lues in the required respect to the standards Constitutional the their country and that it has suspended those of the members of the aisles of respect to allowing .
it is the the then , the Canadian tenacity to push the campaign the would account the Francophonie the complaisance particular , the respect to the plans dictatoriaux .
it timely his conviction of the need to a plan permanent , the Canadian the democracy , the daily , the the kind of the the it describes now , the the inevitable the point of Yesterday , the formation of the elected , the sustainable , the meetings regular to discuss how more affirmative as parliamentary in a country democratic .
the the subject , the media have the great the Canadian the presence of a representative of the catalogued and the the Congo .
the , the my argument , they have brought proceeds the the Senate . the summit and entach? this year if crucial to the vitality of the Francophonie international .
i have made the freedom of literacy to the Prime Minister Jean Chr the the sujetle 24 August the .
in his answer to the 31 August , the Prime Minister . the government . the political the the Canada , and I quote :
... - ... the respect to accountability to the place . the Francophonie , the WTO the the representatives of all the country , the the Whole to the Canada for ceVIIe Summit .
however , it is meant no , we cautionnons the abuses along by some government or individuals who could be to the
i understand the Government of the Prime Minister , but I believe that he is a time , red?finir the ?ligibilit? the some leadership , to the Canadian and insights the dispute international .
the same , the the subject , the Minister of the Foreign Affairs , the Canada , the Honourable Lloyd Axworthy , brought the the Canada was or would the vote of a right to destroy humanitarian .
the lot . the principle of the above the Canadian Transportation human the entire other sessions , including the the development of the trade .
i am rallie the one such Position .
it appeared , the my argument , the opinion that I exprimais the the Prime Minister , the knowledge that the rights of the man be a above the good number of reprisal and the practical the federal - Provincial Relations .
i believe personally that he will soon be the restrictions as condition sine qua not to a representation international legitimate the respect to the rights human to the country d?sirant to the one conference international .
he is whether the one beware tool for show the seaway , some countries r?calcitrants , the the same as the the embargos trade and the devastating the the links diplomatic .
i hope , honourable senators , the " will be the this recommendation , the the United the attendance to the the organizations international be credited respect to the human , the time .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . )
the bill to the in the Canadian the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
third reading
leave having been granted , back to the article 1 , the business of the government :
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Stollery , seconded the Canadian third reading of the bill to the C - 4 , the fact the in the Canadian the Agreement agreement between the government . the Canada , the governments of the members of the Agency spatiale European , the government . the Japan , the government . the Federation of Russia and the government . the United - United the North the Canadian cooperation respecting the Canadian Station spatiale international civil and retired the the changes related to the other Acts .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , there has the one another hon. Senator the wishes speak in the debate on the motion of Social reading of the bill to the C - 4 ?
the Honourable Peter A . Stollery :
honourable senators -
the Hon. the Speaker :
if the Honourable Senator Stratton the honourable now , the speech put it to the debate in Social reading .
the senator Stollery :
honourable senators , the Canadian . among the most great users of technology spatiale and they live in a the the country . the cool the the world .
it is occurring by a way unfailing the face the potential of our industry , the our researchers , the our astronautes and , by the above all , the the generations future of Canadians .
the bill to the C - 4 to anything to allow the the Canada . go all the potential that offer the Station spatiale international .
the bill to the motion of instrument of ratifying the country contribution to this remarkable business spatiale , but it is the the one little not to the Canada in a bill , a one . the g?ant to the betterment .
he not . the normal that a bill to a moment scope and the one such processes require the the " d?finisse a system of the very complex .
the parties to the agreement , the knowledge of Canada , the United - United , the Russian , the Japan and 11 , using , the career of the one of the collaboration international the view of the philosophy detailed , the the development , the the seaway and the the use , the Canadian and for peaceful , the one Station spatiale international civil habit?e the fulfilment .
the agreement for the the statutory and the the Income to the the government that these objectives are refreshed .
juridiquement issue , the bill to the C - 4 calling the enforcement of commitments that we have made in order to the protocol the agreement intergouvernemental the harmonisant the legislation Canadian with this agreement .
the most important , the bill to the C - 4 spread the application of the Code offence of the Canada , the Canadian , ship the Canadian Record spatiale , the , in some circumstances , the the extradition foreign .
the principle is the same that the the other applications extraterritoriales the the Code offence of the Canada , by the Act , plateformes the forage the sea .
in addition , the bill to the C - 4 allows the us to the the government ' body of the information essential to the WTO the removal of liability the the CHST the the Agreement on the publisher spatiale and that the information provided are used exclusively the this end .
i wish thank my colleagues , in particular , the members of the committee on the Canadian and business foreign to the corridors interest that they have indicated , the respect to the bill to the and the Canadian SSI .
in the the chairman of the committee , I have been enticed the look the attention that The the members of this important step the the history of the Canada in the space .
during the hearings of the committee , some point . was raised and debated , including the the issues relating to the codifies the conduct , the Canadian juridiction and the the application extraterritorial .
i am pleased to say that the " the Premiers and the the effectiveness of the honourable , we are we are rapproch?s the the adoption of the bill to the history .
the Kyoto mouth the seaway , the Canada and , solely , the all the partners participant the the program of the publisher spatiale , in the the concerns of whales and the use of the most of laboratory spatial the the world served in neglect , and will birth to a new era of resource spatiale .
the the direction of the new century , the Canada is a leader global in the area of the technology spatiale , prepared to make party , the opportunities that follow the economy approach the the knowledge , is the Canadian the future .
the Canadian ?prouveront a great pride in having , the in direct the the space the , the astronautes Canadian participant the this event fiftieth of the history of the betterment .
he not the no doubt that , in the beginning of new millennium , we are pr?parons also to repudiate the boundaries of our Cosmos , the result of important d?couvertes scientific , and the make the the progress technological innovative .
we do we even not imagine the d?couvertes the most important evidence of the remarks in the 25 , 50 years in the
imaginons how , he is the per year , were affected the progress scientific progress has .
the th?ories r?volutionnaires the Canadian the , the evolution and the thermodynamique the the years canoe the have banned the one progress ahurissant .
yet , the not have not the autumn the Food , the the imagination . witty not to follow the evolution quick of the science and the Canadian Technology .
that he I , and the council the the subject , anecdotes historic amusantes .
Charles H . Duell , Director of the Transportation of the pharmaceutical the the United - United , the said , 1899 that the first , the was the smaller the one . was the .
in 1943 , Thomas Watson , the Canadian IBM , would he , he is a market global to five computers . " the most of the
he not . not surprising that , in a photo the 1949 the Canadian magazine Popular Mechanics , the fact predicted that the the readiness of the future be no problems that a tonne and processes the .
the same , a note of service Economy , the Western Union , business American the Telecommunications , stated that the Canadian Technology , the telephone leave too , illustrated to be seriously considered as a the communication the .
furthermore would the the same . imagine the way , the lines phone the turn our society and the provinces are now underway to do the the path with makers vid?os the Canadian and destinataires many ?
the Canadian and estimates , and 270 and 350 satellites the telecommunications will lanc?es the chamber 2007 the view of support the infrastructure World of the information , full growth the the revenues doubleront the chamber , year 2005 .
" to producer Churchill the transmission of the Hon. the Canadian Courtois the open the seaway , the response to the information that we know , today .
the would have the armed that the industry Ministerial the direct , as called trade Ministerial , the not there is the Canadian reseller the 1993 disorderly before the end of 1995 , growth , he would the fundamental the same importance that the game and the automobile the their time .
the community medical , through the the Senate Higher in the areas of the space , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , the accountants the clean completely some diseases and the same the the solutions to some other .
our community scientific , the the public . the the scientific Canadian of the space are the leaders of leadership , contributes to our understanding of the Universe and the the effects of the r?chauffement overall the the fallout .
our community industrial , through the the industry spatiale Canadian , a the the revenues high higher the 1.4 billion . $ , and creates the the jobs , the Canadian exports and the the expertise to a market global . Who growing .
the courage of the Canadian and elevated and the perseverance the Canadian , the the success the - barristers each funded and every Innovation .
in spite of the failure , each jalon must be perceived as a part of the need acquiescence the the betterment of coastal and the understanding of unknown .
the the years of the 50 years in the the not there any way of the extent small uncle retourn?e , the the the the is the one uncle the Canadian surface the Canadian planet Mars , annuity the one new Cosmos the the Science .
Cosmos Graham Courtois the previous said that the following :
when a supplementary , strong , a place . opening ; however , he we do so often the criteria for long and the latter the door closed the us not see no , and winding the the jury the us .
the Station spatiale international civil not . the one of the doors the the jury the the Canada .
it is the the Canada . the the major partners in the adventure spatiale the most audacieuse have business in the history , the in allowing the the " it took the Canadian and scientific , the the astronautes , the the experience and the Canadian Technology , the Canada .
the investment to long term of the remarkable in the partnership is the creation of opportunities the questions our young the goodies that they can do so role of the in the d?couvertes the the new millennium and the front . to the
this is therefore , and the pride that I urge the honourable senators , support this jalon to the whole of the Canadian and the the betterment in the areas of the exploration spatiale and the the innovation technologique .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed and the bill to the , read a third time , is passed . )
bill to the Canadian 99 to the implementation of inclusion of Tax Conventions
third reading of Second the the debate
the honourable senators , I am pleased to take the honourable today , the the reading of the third reading of the bill to the S - 4 , the Canadian 99 to the implementation of inclusion of Tax Conventions .
the bill to the existence the Convention tax . the Canada and the Japan , the Canadian and the implementation of new tax with the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgarian , the Portugal , the Ouzb?kistan and the Jordan , and proposes the Convention , into the the Luxembourg .
the conventions involved , the bill to the structure a vital particular , the business and the citizens of the Canada , differently the the activities in the country and there invest .
let - I , you scenario the context in which the name of the Canadian law .
the conventions tax . the great objectives : avoid the little tax and prevent the avoidance , the Canadian tax on the income .
you wholehearted . the the conventions tax . the impact sensitive the two of the priorities of the state , the , the one of the Canadian promotion of the trade and the the investment , the , the other hand , the equity tax .
the conventions tax . Gustafson directly to the trade internationally the foreign and the services , and they thus the way tangible the the economy domestic .
it is it out that the value of the export of the Canada is the the time at the Canadian 40 per - the GDP annual ?
in addition , the conventions tax evasion the the equity of the system tax . securing the the Canadian . the not the Canadian a double taxation , the the person lo when a taxpayer section in a country , but earner a revenue in a place in the
the values of Tax Conventions , the one and the other countries be impose the income .
among the solutions possible to the problem , the country . residence may removing the income of Tax or to a credit , under the one convention tax to the CHST the the tax paid to the country where the income has been able .
the country Kelleher can also sell the deficit the rate of " to the purpose of Tax .
in the , the country treaties , the Canadian and pays the the CHST the the tax on the income paid to the only the residents .
in the absence of Chile tax or the one another form of exemption meeting , the bill , the rate of " level , the Canada , the income of the only the residents is the per cent .
the conventions tax terms of the bill to the S - 4 treaties the the rate of " diminished , the the respect to the band , interests and royalties to the Canadian Work the the activities in the country . the .
let - I would give some clarification .
the rate maximum of " the tax on the band received by the the business holding the the least 10 per - and the Canadian vote of the corporation versant the band will the rate per the the words of the conventions with the Luxembourg , the Lebanon and the Ouzb?kistan , and the 10 per the the words of the Convention with the Bulgarian and the Jordan .
in order to our convention with the Portugal , a business . evidence to the least 25 per - and the Canadian vote of a society , the limits the the rate of " maximum of 10 per the the band .
the conventions with the Algeria and the Kirghizistan treaties a rate of 1,200 maximum of 15 per the all the band .
in the case of the interests , the rate of " bare is de10p. per under the the conventions with the Bulgarian , the Luxembourg , the Jordan , the Ouzb?kistan , the Lebanon and the Portugal , and the rate per the application of the conventions with the Algeria and the Kirghizistan .
a lifetime is scheduled in some cases , the respect to the interests , by the most that extra some types of borrowing the the state .
a scheme maximale the 10 per the the CHST the the tax will application of the royalty the the words of our taxation with the Bulgarian , the Luxembourg , the Jordan , the Ouzb?kistan , the Kirghizistan and the Portugal .
the rate accomplishing provided by the Convention with the Algeria , and the the respect to the royalty , will the rate per .
the , some treaties conventions a clause of exemption or territory a rate maximum of " de5p. per the the royalty applicable to the rights of gloom , the the meaning and the the pharmaceutical and the - to the
the protocol agreement with the Japan the Canadian reduction of the tables applicable to the band interentreprises , the the rate maximum is bringing the rate per and exon?re the companies Canadian , Distinguished the the ships or the the aircraft in the area of the transportation international the the tax . the business using the the international local the the Japan .
the provinces Canadian encouraged have this exemption of character to the business Japanese who ours the types of the the Canada .
the the the Canadian most of the conventions signed by the Canada , there was the with the Ouzb?kistan , the Bulgarian , the Algeria and the Kirghizistan , the summer n?goci?es before the announcement of these rules , a clause . was incorpor?e the the rules ensured the Canadian migration of the taxpayers to the the Canada can give unilaterally a credit for income foreign to the ?migrants and the , the in 2007 .
this approach avoids . The the little tax . the gains made to the beginning of the ?migrants , the chamber , the the the conventions , the right . ren?goci?es the manner in the clinics the the new rules .
the same clause . Consequently in the case of the Japan , the the requested that this issue , studied the Canadian and next bargaining .
i wish finally answer to the concerns expressed by some senators , as the Canadian Human the little tax with the Ouzb?kistan the case of the practical the the country . the Canadian Human the Canadian Human .
these values find their incarnation in our institutions and practices democratic , in the boards federal and provincial and the rights of the human , in the Charter of the rights and Freedoms , and the our traditions of peace , the Order and the good government .
the approach to the Canada . the Canadian Human the Canadian Human been 1986 , the respect to the changes to the , is the commitment and the dialogue .
the Canada is the opinion that the institution . a dialogue to many levels with the country , we causent the the concerns . the Canadian Human the Canadian Human is a way effective the use of transparency , the respect to the rights of the human and the symbolic the Canadian rule of the .
our policy . done before the Canadian the greed , a pragmatism encadr? by the the principles , the the way comes we are effor?ons the definition of the facts , fairer the one change positive and real in the country . the .
the government that we take vary inevitably the the country , the the degree of political the matter with the Canada . the issues . rights of the human , the scope of our influence on the country , the the region , the number and the strength of the NGOs the , oeuvrent the vote of the rights of the human , and the basis of the one wide the other factors .
in the case of the Ouzb?kistan , the the Senate to the level bilateral or multilateral , the Canada urge the country . both the the reforms economic and democratic and the best meet the rights of the human .
the the level multilateral , the Ouzb?kistan the acc?d? the 1994 and 1995 , six treated important to the United Nations the the rights of the human , the the basis to the Canada and the the other states the Canadian and Agricultural Nations of whether the the Ouzb?kistan rest of the obligations to the words of these include .
this country . , in addition , signed the North final the Helsinki , the so that he is now member of the Organization for the safety and the cooperation in Europe .
the Canada supports the program of oversight and the happening the the OSCE in the country .
this is the the CHST that the CIDA the sponsored the participation of the Canadian non ouzb?kes the Defence of the rights of the human the one of conference of the OSCE the this issue , held in Warsaw , 1998 .
the same , the Agency Canadian of development international top the support the one some of the bills ouzb?kes in the area of the rights of the human , including the preparation and the distribution of a brochure the Canadian Declaration Universal the the rights of the man by the Centre national the the rights of the human the Ouzb?kistan .
the following the the d?ment?lement the the Union Soviet , he has had failed to new agreements with the United , such the Ouzb?kistan , the not make no part of the United successors linked by the Convention of double taxation reached with the former - Ata Soviet .
the Canada has embarked the the negotiations in 1995 , in the Canadian the public that individuals the business Canadian to the market , including the the area of the resources natural .
the Ouzb?kistan is a the the most great country producers of the " the world .
the the Order , the the the trade , the Canada with the Ouzb?kistan the av?rent modest , the business Canadian continue to the interest in the the areas such as the seaway mining , the Telecommunications and , the recently , the education , in particular , the Canadian Legion the students trade in Ouzb?kistan and the reform of the system of education .
the negotiating the one convention of double taxation with the Ouzb?kistan is consistent the Canadian political the the Canada . facilitate the spark of a global released to a global the market and the use of development democratic in the new States independent of the former - Ata Soviet .
the the instruments legal as the Convention drive to promote the transparency , the predictability and the respect to the law , the right in our relations economic bilateral .
honourable senators , the Canada continue to the CCN in a dialogue with the Ouzb?kistan the way to encourage the country . improve the practical the federal - development democratic , the respect to the rights of the human and the reform economic .
however , he is difficult to the implanter the the market . the former - Ata Soviet and that require a dispute the long manfully .
the instruments legal the help to the make , such the Convention of double taxation , consistent in the the agreements , backed the guarding the int?rets the the Canadian and the the business Canadian .
when the past choose the Consolidated their activity to the the market difficult as the Canadian the Ouzb?kistan , these tools the to fish the clarification the rules and the latest the predictability .
the Canadian complete , I speak two other points .
let the first , honourable senators , the when the provisions of a convention tax different the ones domain in the Act , the tax on the income , the Convention tax barely the way to ensure that the objectives that I have mentioned , earlier that presently .
honourable senators , the Elimination of the little tax on the plan of the operations trade dealing the country convention by the bill to the not be the be the the advantage of the Greeks and the the investors Canadian , there are the , and promote the the same look the the relationship international harmonieuses and the the trade trade reinforce .
the the time at the the Canada has signed the the conventions tax with 67 country .
this figure montera the aged a time that the conventions involved , the bill to the enhanced the effect , the the will the the meaning of the objective of the Canada . expand its surface the conventions tax international .
honourable senators , I would ask that laws of the opportunity to the Canadian law .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the senator would appreciate , it also , the courts on the bill to the , but it has had the matter to the meeting of the committee on the Canadian and business foreign .
i move the adjournment of the debate in the name , and I am the it . involving a word tomorrow .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , as the end of the year approach to the Canadian g?ants , could the I ask the the senator Kinsella , the other members of the Opposition wish to the honourable the the article in the Canadian the senator Andreychuk ?
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
i believe that we are the two only senators , wish to the honourable .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Kinsella , the the name of the senator Andreychuk , the debate is adjourned . )
the speech , the Throne
motion of the Canadian the question . response
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Jeffrey , seconded by the Honourable Senator Furey , seconded the the adoption of a Adresse the Governor General of Gouverneure general , on the the speech that contemporaries the speech in the the opening of the second session of the Thirty - sixth Parliament . - (
8e on the Canadian resuming the the debate adjourned .
the Honourable Marjory LeBreton :
honourable senators , I am pleased to participate in the debate on the speech , the Throne , the so I share the opinion of the most of the observers and productivity , the knowledge that the speech , the Throne is d?pourvu the vision and not we news not a - something the the death of the government .
i do I will be something to say , the subject :
it . brings to the heart of my speech : the management economic , the Opposition no , pratiqu?e by the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister of waiting .
here how the cabinet the the Prime Minister boils the speech , the Throne :
" era of the growth effr?n?e the the deficits and the Canadian debt public is behind us , for the good .
we have the Canadian and Administration consecutive to both exercises financial All - that the not to the not seen been 1951 - 1952 .
the ratio of the debt , the GDP falling throughout .
as they not have not filed , the image of administration and the Internet of the government . , avoidable apparently , to believe the the Canadian that the government previous was responsible for this situation .
they have d?form? the facts .
i am well come , honourable senators , the the only wish to so describe this tactique would argue unparliamentary .
the government has the subamendment a false on the the initiatives the the former government Progressive - Conservative the Brian Mulroney : the free - free , the GST , the privatization and the bilateral , the space the the Pearson Pearson , and the Upholder the helicopters , for the highlight that the - that the
as it has passed systematically all these policies that he was d?nonc?es , why the hands . argue that he has the worldwide the one else to the to use of countless the the Prime Minister ?
what are the facts ?
honourable senators , the the fall of 1993 , the deficit . ago , 37,5 billion . $ .
the Liberal are upon the the power to November 1993 , and the are being Bloc the state , the Estimates imaginables the the figure for the increase the most efficiently before the end of the fiscal 1993 , 1994 , the the motion debated . March 1994 . scrap the in five months to work they work .
they cried the figure sp?culatif the 44 the 46,000 billion . $ , after their arrival the the power , hoping that he greatest ancr? in the spirit of the people , the the the motion a , unfortunately .
after the Canadian and the , they have succeeded to do grimper the figure of the deficit to 42 billion . $ .
they obtained was clear : $ a figure higher the one of 38 billion . $ , the the deficit , there when the government Progressive Conservative , the dance , 1984 .
how the , are the people made ?
they have said , the registres the the Estimates , were in the specific to the years , in the
in the , honourable senators , three of the amounts subscribed not have not been doctoral extending March 1993 , the the people were the Indians the the registres to the fiscal 1993 , 1994 .
the Auditor General has denounced this predatory , but the government . in moquait .
the Liberal the need to a certain hour to their program policy .
they were prepared to accept the criticism why the the media for a day , both the result of the political .
why not the availability - they not the ?
they not , either the no Opposition to the Parliament and , the the time , they b?n?ficiaient the the support of media accommodants , even often serviles .
the parties of Opposition , the Bloc and the Liberal Party , rightly more destroy the Liberal Party , progressive that hold the the accountability the the government .
the Liberal Party has a perp?tu? a recession the the the fact , really and the the members continue to the record , as the phoques unbeknownst that they are .
as the fastest their false senate in all the other areas , he is surprising that the not the fact that has the question to this regard to the
the smaller the the aerials , they are very strong .
i suppose that , for a Liberal , the motion wonderful .
it . strong to discussing this building .
since the Liberal or those who are the apologie not have been given many of the principle of the equity - the motion fine , paying , the Canadian War and the political , the - that the auditor that as a sad fact , the Senate , in passing , not the the thrust of infamous opinion that the Canadian public . the political and the the politicians .
regardons the case , a place deal , honourable senators , the in the highlights the torts the probable , and hope that this will the make that the situation . all the observers of the scene policy .
this is exactly what the I hear , " ongoing the facts .
in 1984 , the situation which h?ritait the new government Progressive - Conservative was monster .
the Opposition Liberal the the Ontario , David Peterson , the said , the time , the Brian Mulroney h?rite the one devastating mess . "
the chairman of the Minister and Secretary of the " and Foreign External racing , Jean Chr , the said , with a plain unusual that he not the ever benchers been : " We let the disclaimer - eat vacuum . "
in October the , Michael Bliss , in a column entitled : " Trudeau the 1980 years , a peerage heritage to the the actions that the following :
the failure of the government Trudeau the the respect to the political economic was the full that the the devastation the pilot .
the , the government to arch?ologues the the history , the pictures of the Agency the examination of the investment foreign , the the guideline of the Program Energy national and the the controls the the salaries and the the price ?
the the in soucie ?
he has continued to the way next :
the when Pierre Trudeau was the the power , the failure of the deterioration of the Liberal to the the economy Canadian , led by the state was much applaud .
the marginalized the planning , the collectivisme and the progress by the ?tatisation the the model of the socialistes the are effondr?es the the Canada and the the world world , the as the socialisme the - the .
the the the former the the economy Liberal the the years Trudeau , the was a terrible montagne the burden and a system of tax oppressif .
the government Chr the attempted the the deviants totally the this aspect of the heritage Mr. Trudeau .
honourable senators , the fact is that the intervention of the government in the economy and the our lives was the Hon. apog?e .
the regulations ?dict?s by the government and the chinoiseries administrative were to the Order of the Order , and the Estimates government 578 the the levels records .
we had a inflation , both figures and the the political d?bilitantes such as the NEP and the AEIE .
the Auditor General of the time . indicated with justesse that the government . the Canada and the Parliament had the lost the control of the Finance public , the
the Estimates for the program had risen the most of 14p. per by year , 15 years .
the deficit federal was spent the close to zero the 38 billion . $ , and the debt federal , increased the most of 1000p. per , some of the trends the most important , fairly the the time when Jean Chr was Minister of the Finance .
in 1984 , in the the new government , we have had the job task of change the things and the attitudes .
we were profoundly the us atteler the Canadian job .
we believed that we we do the the Canadian , we had appointed .
as it is that the one of university :
the consequences the long term ... - ...
municipal political economic the Trudeau ,
... - ... the the inflation galopante , the dollar in stone free , the the rate of the records and a unemployment in jobs - Ministry of serious problems , the Prime Minister Mulroney and the the special long to the Competition .
he not the no doubt that he was that the Canada renverse the steamship and books , the the reforms deep .
what the summer the results ?
if the excluded the service of the debt , he not there was the Canadian deficit government in 1990 .
that the motion ? the Canadian the deficit the us go time to the the other place and the Canadian public ?
the truth , the motion that , as the observer of the scene financial the record , the only to real the the importance of a deficit , the motion of large the the GDP that he is the
it is recognized the in the book Red the reality correctly .
the , true , standard that the Union European limited to his members of morality adh?rer the the treaty the Maastricht , the one deficit equivalent to 3 per - the GDP .
what are the facts ?
concerns . percentage of the GDP , the deficit federal , the most cut - half the the government previous , from the 91 per the 1984 , 91 per the 1990 - 91 .
then , we have been harmed by a recession World the the one of grug? the gains for the morale the deficit to 5,8p. per - the GDP in 1993 , 1994 .
in spite of the softening , the deficit was the Canadian reseller the country of the close to three points of large Churchill the the the the was when we are upon the the power , the following the ajouts made by the Liberal , the years of the five months months of the year financial .
he is ind?niable that we have suggested the Finance public in a well better the in 1993 , when we are upon the the power to 1984 .
as a analyste the the Council Office the the indicated - and the motion interesting the note that this analyste is today , the the Senate , the our friends of the opposite :
... - ... all the deficits and all the trends the Canadian debt national were account the the public the Canadian debt , there , the -
our
... government . so , the power .
what other measures taken by the government . contributed to the state of the country economy ?
the removal of the Agency the examination of the investment foreign .
in the area Energy , by the , the Program Energy national , the the cost of the $ the $ the the economy . the Alberta and the homeless the industry oil the summer abolish , the same that the tax on the income p?troliers .
the government has privatized or dissous 39 companies , the and the other companies , positions similar .
a measure legislation . was passed and the the government administrative the summer taken to the clean or the fusionner 41 agencies , boards and ink .
these measures , conjugu?es the Canadian ports , the operations , the fact that taxes $ positions have been supprim?s .
the Teleglobe the response Canada , in passing by Canadair and P?tro - Canada , the new companies private are ultimately to do the Competition and the Consolidated the one market global the most of the response .
FIRA and reflect Canadair were to the time , and selling the Bombardier the the gouffres , the in which is holding the the money .
today , the Canadair is a great in the industry Canada , with the sales of the Challenger , the the fare the transportation regional the implications and the the Global Express .
the free - free with the United - United and the NAFTA the summer and the " the heart of many of our accomplishments .
the Opposition , particularly the Canadian and Liberal , the summer extremely hysterical .
the the diabolis?M. Mulroney and given the question . patriotism .
he is now clear that we have chosen the right way to the Canada .
only the Liberal could concur the the political , broncher ?
the ages have largely forgotten now that the Liberal , are against with vehemence the the Agreement - free - free with the United - United and the the NAFTA the standing the Mexico to the acceptance then , demonstrates when they are upon the the power .
in 1988 , the last year before the implementation of the Canadian the Agreement - free - free of the Canada and the United - United , our profound the freight to the United - United the are high the EH billion . $ .
honourable senators , he has learned 120 years , from the Canadian Confederation to the our profound to the United - United skyrocketing per $ the $ .
he not the special that 10 years in the part of the free - free to reach the maximum billion . $ .
among the calamit?s the framers the abattre the us that the Liberal , the following the Canadian conclusion , the Agreement - free - free , he is the Canadian Coast the the assurance - 1986 , the the development regional and the our institutions cultural .
the the free - free , our economy would have a well stagner the the years of the years 90 .
it is to the " that the that the the not been realized . Perrault or factionalism .
as the Council Canadian of the leaders of business of the said :
our profound the summer the barking the most distinguished in the galaxie Canadian .
he is fair to say , jurisdictional that the free - free is a great gentleman .
the the ever forget . the chahut that he is the in the this chamber ?
in the , he would the difficult to find a precedent in the country history .
during the election of 1993 , the Liberal . did the GST this tax and the Canadian replace .
the Canadian . voted in a number of Delacourt that is an the case .
six years , later , this tax . , that the
why ?
the answer is obvious .
the the geology that he is a the one tax original visible and crushing the the point of the social .
it is the well valve beneficial to our economy , particularly to the level of the export , and the government in the Somalis the the revenues important .
the former tax . 13.5 per the the sales of the EH that we have lifted found a tax grab nuisible the the export .
the Agreement - free - free of the Canada and the United - United , the NAFTA , the GST , the privatization , the bilateral , the removal of the Program Energy national and the replacement of the Agency the examination of the investment foreign by Investissement Canada . the Canadian and the advent of the Canadian restructuring and the Canadian modernization of the economy Canadian .
the one point of the tax , the reduction of the deficit and the restructuring of the government . began as 1984 , and the in 1994 , some people trying to the make that the
the Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator LeBreton , I have the latter the honourable interrupt , but your time , honourable is elapsed .
the senator LeBreton :
honourable senators , I donnez - you , leave of up ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
is the the Canadian agreed ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator LeBreton :
all these courageuses political and two things in common .
this is a government Conservative , the the resolutions and the Liberal the people , combattues , voting against each of the .
when the government Mulroney . left the power to June 1993 , he is the 1.4 million . jobs . the the in September 1984 .
the rate plus was the 6 43 , the level of the low , 20 years .
the rate of inflation was the meagre per , the rate of the low , 30 years .
the United Nations clandestine the seat that the Canada dates the Prime rank the the world to the the motion of the quality of the life .
but it is important , more , honourable senators , the motion that the attitudes the difference .
the " and the , the Canadian . including the importance of the reduction of the deficit , the the people . was not prepared to do it is the ten years .
he is the few years , the faculty Thomas Velk and l . R . Riggs the the University McGill , codirecteurs the the program of the students North - American the McGill , the socio the performace economic the the Canada , all the first ministers been the World War World .
these sophisticated the the economy . compar? the results of the unemployment , the inflation , the growth , the rate of the , the value of the dollar , the distribution of the income , the deficit and the rate of tax .
the extent conclusion , are the people upon ?
i quote directly to their study .
the record objective of stewardship - as the the numbers of the performace real the the economy Canadian - is the best of the 35 years in the
as I , I said , the beginning , all these efforts ind?niables the are perdus in the turbulence the Canadian misinformation and the Canadian tampering the Canadian reality of the government . the front owner of Hate called - making Liberal the the Canada .
the lobby the communication of the Liberal and their friends l?che - boots in the media say now , the country . " the the government of the courageusement eliminated the deficit , redress? the economy and saved the country .
jean Chr and Paul Martin the previous borne their aur?ole .
this merely go around the the allegations that the the new government Liberal the worldwide the 1993 , a situation economic and budgetary extremely concerned .
the Canadian a debate televised the the years of the campaign campaign the 1997 , Mr. Chr the same subject of the " situation monster the the the one inherited .
Mr. . Chr overlooked the - be a place . the fameuses talk with the fault - free .
he not had course inherited the way of such .
the work preparatory the summer . the one strong resuming economic approach the the export .
our political and reactions a change structurel deep the the Canada , the the plan of the tax , the the inflation and the the trade trade .
they were impopulaires , but to the
honourable senators , the Canadian should with the the historical the the results , but recognize the in the credit , the the least , the , the the the standing .
as the former prime minister Brian Mulroney the the said , on the the ministers of the Finance Michael Wilson and Don Mazankowski the cultivation the bedrooms and Paul Martin , cueille the Rideau .
in the the CIBC , I am delighted to the results and I do rechigne not to recognize Mr. Martin , the credit , he come .
we all the done now , the Parliament we in the Canadian opportunity to see the the political ?prement controversial produce finally , the results repetitive the undergraduate the fabric social the country , the
honourable senators , we have said , the Canadian the truth that they parallel know , the subject of the free - free , the the NAFTA , the Canadian GST , the Canadian reduction of the deficit , the Canadian small inflation , the the Pearson Pearson , the the Upholder the the helicopters and we have the area in this authorize tradition Parliamentary that is the responsibility initiated .
our political economic and the very controversial in the many interventions , but we have laid again and again , the so they were adopted and implemented in the Act , long period , the Canada would be nation turned .
the deficit would eliminated , the export conna?traient a growing upwards and the well - be economic the the Canadian and the the members of their families would am?lior?s in a climate not inflationniste .
we do we not make the standard ; we have the just said that he is that the the progress made .
i am very proud that my colleagues and I , the side - the Canadian the House we took and continue to help develop the the progress is the
the the Hon. the
hear !
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , if the Honourable Senator Jeffrey made this is up , the speech will the effect of closing the debate on the motion .
the Honourable Richard H . Jeffrey :
in the Adresse the answer to the speech , the Throne , the senator Furey we , the benefit of the home perspective outcome of the limit is the country , and that the Hon. experience personal .
since the time , the many senators , in the the debate and the fact point of large array of ideas .
this is a debate , the motion defenders the the best traditions of this chamber .
in my question , I have the the comments following :
he considers the the government . hear carefully . the world , the lead the conditions education and Programs and , in the Canadian n , the basis of the Canadian Air .
this is the Canadian medical the the plan of action and the Hon. effectiveness , the end of the the the government will necessary .
the important , the the motion of the quality of these decisions and the the government resolutions by the government that d?pendront the future and the well - be the the Canada and the the Canadian .
honourable senators , the government has heard the our voice and the the advantage of the Middle the our chats .
it , the , the the not there has not the other speakers , I am pleased to opt this motion to my name .
( the motion is agreed with argument and the Adresse the answer to the speech , the Throne is agreed . )
( the Canadian motion of the Honourable Senator Hays , he is scheduled that the Adresse the grossoy?e and introduced to His Excellency the Gouverneure general , His Honour the Speaker . )
the speech , the Throne
the Adresse the answer to Motion Honourable the Canadian reseller the the debate on eighteenth on the Chair of Sittings of the article
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Hays , seconded by the Honourable Senator Jeffrey :
that the deliberations to the Order of the Order of the Honourable the the debate on the motion Honourable the the adoption of a Adresse the answer to the speech , the Throne , rendered by His Excellency the Gouverneure general the the Houses of the government , the completion the eighth on the Chair the the Order will have debated ;
the Act , would the adjournment of the Honourable Senator Kinsella , seconded by the Honourable DeWare , the Canadian motion . the not now adopted , the it be amended in paragraph the word " eighteenth the and the the replacement by the word " fourteenth the .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I ask that the motion No. 2 , the " Affairs , the government to the Senate ray?e the the Order of the Order , since it is the most effective .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , we must the first obtain the consent of the author of the amendment , would be the motion is now , the study .
the author of the amendment wish to withdraw the motion ?
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
the Hon. the Speaker :
the Honourable Senator Kinsella asking that the amendment be withdrawn .
is the the Canadian agreed , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the Honourable Senator Hays the the the motion be withdrawn .
is the the Canadian agreed , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the article is withdrawn . )
the Act , the snitch in the basis public
second reading of adjournment of the debate
essentially , the bill to the S - 13 , name in the right over the the values and the the Ethics the Canadian public service federal .
the bill to the the question to the basis public professional and modern that we have the opportunity to have the the Canada .
in the , I am the opinion that the basis public . the Canada . the not the equal in the world .
a report entitled : " Yes strong guarding the agenda the values and the Ethics in the basis public .
he is a the the report of a group of the single , the by the Clerk of the Council Office , there has some years ago and chaired by the late John Tait , a former colleague the the subamendment , Minister of the Justice .
this report was to the Canadian to the basis public , reflect and , in some cases , the red?couvrir and understand the values fundamental , and finally , needed the commitment to their the in all the issues of the work .
i commend the reading of this publication to the Honourable Senator .
some of the issues and problems identified as concerns of the officials Canadian rely the evolution of the conventions on the reality ; the conflict between the ancient and the new values ; and challenges of order d?ontologique that exists the new and the the new reconvenes in the Canadian and the Canadian public service ; and the leadership and the management of the resources human , this time , one changes .
the bill to the S - 13 attempts the person the need to provide a part of this is the Canadian the protection of the d?nonciateurs in the new environment , the Ethics and the the values as backbone important to our service public Canadian .
the part destined to deal of the Canadian the protection of the d?nonciateurs provided in the bill to the S - 13 is based on the system d?ontologique the , the margin and fortunately , is the most of the fr?quent in our service public .
as it is stated in the page 54 of the report Tait , a system d?ontologique :
the way , the Canadian page 55 , the report Tait the Right the the following :
the one of the evidence of the system d?ontologique which we ignore to a vital particular . the implementation of the " the public . the organizations of the basis public . mechanisms the use documentation , and that the councillors , or the Protective the the officials , when those of the B.C. that they , the or the other be the same in a situation . conflict of interest , the people are faced the Canadian and difficulties of order d?ontologique , the the feeling that the revised the the pressure on their , or the " and the Canadian to the the government contrary to the Ethics , the the values of the basis public or the the public public .
the officials we have said , the the the motion needless to their to the preserve the values of the basis public or the the standards high in the Canadian Ethics , if the not to strengthen not the tools to the make .
the one of these tools essential is a person accessible to the people so that MRC , in the confidence , for the Canadian and advice , express the the concerns the the subject of Energy showed , or wish to serious Joyal , the code d?ontologique the Canadian public service .
a moment one must be the rotunda , the self and the authority to the exercise effectively the part and protect the identity and the position of those who have the " and services .
he is to the place . the statutory ensure the the values of the basis public , allow the the officials of anglophones their concerns the the respect to the inadequate ill?gales , contrary to the Ethics or deficits with the values of the basis public , and the giving the " and concern to the fair and impartiale .
honourable senators , the bill to the S - 13 is the giving the " the desire expressed by the basis public . - the , the knowledge , the quality of service of the quality .
the structure of the bill to the primacy the four pillars .
he is a , as the pillar , the government , the the level of the subamendment , prepared , a territorial the the departments and the the organizations , the act to the Ethics and the Senate based on the the values , the so that the the managers and , the the end of the fact , the Minister relevant to the same , involved in the resolution of the problems .
the second pillar the Canadian with r?ciproque and the need to serve the public public .
the third pillar is the Far a way of license the allegations of conduites reprehensible , the way to meet the public public and the d?charger the officials d?nonciateurs the the requirement stressante the the deal of the case of conduites reprehensible the regiment those of the " the one of the three commissioners the Canadian Wheat the Canadian public service of the Canada .
the fourth pillar of the bill to the difference in the protection of the d?nonciateurs .
the bill to the S - 13 another . the the provisions emp?chant the government . free .
the model , honourable senators , first , protects the public public , the ; second , contributes the basis public , as the institution . first category ; third , the Canadian accountability the accountability and the research , upon the the level of the subamendment , prepared ; and , fourth , protects the officials .
the rule 2 , " includes the " person the the education and that the injury the people working in the place . the Canadian the basis public , the Ethics and the the importance of the values , middle of the .
the second , P . refer to the process .
the rule 2 b ) , for the Canadian protect the public public , establish a mechanism for the " and officials of the basis public . exposing the entire confidentiality the the abuse or omissions in the place . the " a Commissioner independent , a the the three commissioners the Canadian Wheat the Canadian public service .
he will then , the commissioner , in the public public , the lead the the investigation and the government . has a .
finally , the third , P . refer to the protection .
the rule 2 c ) states that the bill to the the to the Canadian protect the officials , the the government . free to have denounced the this inquiry special , the right faith , or to the intent of the make , the the conduites reprehensible the the public . the place . the .
the honourable senators soon . the part of the bill to the motion clear and simple .
the basis public . - the working in this issue of Ethics and the values .
the record is good , the government . the level high the professionalism that individuals our officials , the people were to the service of several governments different the the years of the years .
we should be proud of the basis public . the Canada .
this issue of civilian is a reality with the Canadian and jurisdictional the federal and tried to carry .
the governments , the are having been institutionalized their public , trying to include a measure legislation appropriate the Canadian snitch .
the model that we propose in the bill to the , the argument , namely , the , the committee on previous invitera the knowledge , to the the representations , the first simply the privatization a the the three commissioners the Canadian Wheat the Canadian public service of the Canada , as the commissioner of the public public which a Nobel , intends a profitable ill?gale or a highly wrong would be toll .
the snitch would Creator the the commissioner of the public public to the the department not in the not the only responsible , the government . the the stress and the the stress that this arise .
the absence of activity wrong . in the public . the people .
this is why the bill to the rules of the Canadian a commission by the commissioner of the public public , the
a stronger the time . promoting futile and vexatoire .
it would defeated in the body , the so that he not there would no loss of time to the individual , the Department of the agency , the .
a stronger the right faith produce , the one of the the years of the the commissioner the reorganized to the Department .
this last would invited to manage the manner in Haiti the situation , because the the motion of the importance that the functioning and the management of the departments and the the agencies that policy , the rules of the Ethics and the the values the are the touchstone of our service public .
he not . not the Canadian a approach inclusion .
he is a rather , to the requirement of the fact , the responsibility to the level of the operations .
however , if the High the the public public responsible for a stronger the conduct wrong jugeait that he not prohibit not a response satisfaction of the agency or the the Department , he could the highest the the Minister , the right finally the Canadian and accountability , and the Minister purchases the correct the situation .
in ?laborant the provision , we have felt extremely important that the basis of the in value and the turn continue to get the Canadian Wheat the Canadian public service .
finally , he was necessary to include the protection of the requirement turned the Canadian confidentiality .
it is being conjunction as the the department tabled a regulatory the Canadian the commissioner , through the the removal of the extent of reprisal .
honourable senators , the are the principles which the - barristers . C - the .
i , I trac? the great lines .
i urge my colleagues , to the the debate .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Finestone , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act , the Royal Assent
second reading of Motiond' amendment - Points of the Speaker
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Lynch - Staunton , seconded by the Honourable Senator Kinsella , seconded the Canadian second reading of the bill to the S - 7 , the Convention to the guideline of licensing by the Governor General , the the name of Her Majesty , the Canadian Assent Royal to the bills of the bills , the Houses of the Parliament ;
the Act , would the amendment of the Honourable Senator Cools , seconded by the Honourable Senator Sparrow , the the bill to the not be not now read a second time , but rather when the mover remplira the condition exig?e by the bill to the Parliament before the adoption by the Parliament of a bill to the Canadian government Parliamentary amend the prerogative Royal , this requirement preliminary the Canadian partisans the the consent Alaska the Queen Majesty the the study by the Parliament of the interests in the bill to the S - 7 , the proposed the limit and the Constitution the formalit?s the licensing of the Royal Assent by Her Majesty the the Canada , and the the same look the Constitution the charter of the Senate . - (
the Canadian the Speaker : .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , if it is the the Senate , I am prepared to the question to the .
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the 1 December , the the years of the debate in paragraph reading of the bill to the S - 7 respect to the guideline of licensing by the Governor General , the the name of Her Majesty , the Canadian Assent Royal , the senator Cools has suggested a subamendment .
the amendment would the effect of opposing the second reading of the bill to the date , the the the mover of the bill to the , the senator Lynch - Staunton , legal the Resolution the the consent Alaska .
the senator Cools has made specific that this amendment to specific , the the the the bill to the , the Hon. the , alters a prerogative Royal .
the the , the senator Lynch - Staunton has doctor the amendment to authorise the Rules .
the senator Carstairs , then the senator Kinsella , said that they were the agreement with the Government of the senator Lynch - Staunton .
within the the objections , the senator Cools has examined the the amendment proposed take the restrictions the the restrictions the the the Senate .
in the case , this , however , the senator Cools has maintained that the the the the bill to the commerce a prerogative Royal in unnecessary the the powers of the Sovereign respect to the Royal Assent , he would give a indication as a the Governor General or Majesty Majesty the Queen hear , the proposal definition in the bill to the S - 7 .
the senator Cools has given as example , debate , the assembly the study of the Parliament occurrences , 1911 , the the synthetic the Parliament , the Canadian and the Canadian law , run the House of the Lords .
i have the years , the " the Rules , examined all the facts and I now prepared to me deal .
the Canadian first , he is the in my mind two areas of Chartered in the use the the Rules .
the Prime , the course , the Canadian . the the prerogatives augmented .
the second the Act , such a subamendment , is sit in the reading of the second reading .
i traiterai the first , the second part .
the Canadian second reading , the Senate is called the vote on the principle of the bill to the , the the Senate agrees or not the intent first .
this rule of the principle of the bill to the the leading to limit the kind of amendment to the be moved to this stage .
the government , would the question pre , the motion of Motion to alternative , he is the substance two types of amendment to the fishing in paragraph reading , the Committee on several months and the amendment considerations .
the Committee on several months to the deadline the study of the bill to the in proposing that he be read : " a second time in six or three months , starting the the Order of the
the form of the motion is the tabling ; it has been created by the Parliament British the , the most of two centuries to the bending the definition too close to the term , now , in the motion usuelle to second reading : " That the bill to the WTO - ... the date read a second time to the
the our attendance , it exclusively usually the banquet the debate , the the the it is the the people who is the previous concerns of the motion key the possibility of the " new the honourable .
the amendment considerations , by the , is a mechanism for the Income a statement or a explanation , the form of Motion , for the basis of the Canadian law . should not be read a second time .
in the facts , as the main the book 286 Parliamentary the precincts , 6e edition , the the comment 670 , the Canadian page 207 , the amendment considerations must meet the some criteria .
the amendment considerations must change that concept the reference to the supreme or the range of the principles , the the objectives or the the provisions of the bill to the or the person comment the circumstances provisions the Canadian Presented or the the examination of the bill to the , or in the point of the to the affair the Hon. the .
the most , the comment 671 ( 3 ) , the Canadian page 208 , does the the the amendment considerations . the not question of the " the second reading .
here , amendment proposed by the senator Cools the 1 December :
that the bill to the S - 7 . the not now read a second time , but rather when the mover remplira the condition exig?e by the bill to the Parliament before the adoption by the Parliament of a bill to the Canadian government Parliamentary amend the prerogative Royal , this requirement preliminary the Canadian partisans the the consent Alaska the Queen Majesty the the study by the Parliament of the interests in the bill to the S - 7 , the proposed the limit and the Constitution the formalit?s the licensing of the Royal Assent by Her Majesty the the Canada , and the the same look the Constitution the charter of the Senate .
the result , the motion of amendment . is not form and not be a straight the the Hon. the amendment to the reading of the second reading of the bill to the S - 7 .
it however , sleeping not the problem completely .
as I , I said physicians , he is the two areas of Chartered in the use the the Rules .
as the the indicated the senator Cools in the intervention , the consent is necessary , a bill to the manner receive the prerogatives , the income h?r?ditaires , the foreign or the public personal the Canadian Crown .
in the case , this , he not the no doubt that the only on the the bill to the S - 7 . the Canadian the prerogative Royal .
the bill to the not contemplated no provision the the foreign or the public personal the Canadian Queen .
the question to the the need to the then , is the knowledge , a bill to the the proposed the the formalit?s other that the ceremony the Royal Assent duty a prerogative of the Crown .
in hospitals the point of the , the senator Cools the motion stands the Canadian and want made to the Parliament British during the debate surrounding the Parliament occurrences , 1911 .
i tried to the press that how this example , evidence of circumstances , we relate .
the comments of Lord Lansdowne are equally the need to obtain the consent Alaska when a bill to the existence a prerogative Royal , the however , the nature or the scope of the prerogative Royal , particularly in the the the policy , the automotive constitutional the the Canada .
the following Beauchesne , the question of the consent Alaska the be imminently important to the decision final the one bill to the .
the the comment 726 ( 2 ) , the Canadian page 221 , he is that the " the values ( the consent Alaska ) makes nulles and the creative the deliberations identify the view of the adoption of the bill to the " .
as the many senators , the Middle , the not . not the first time that the Senate at a bill to the Act , Assent Royal .
in 1985 , the committee , the privileges , the the Rules and the Canadian Rules , the one of the Canadian Assent Royal , the recommended , the drafting of a resolution to the one question joint the late to the Governor General ' s , does the amendment of the ceremony the Royal Assent .
however , the report . the ever been passed by the Senate .
the the years of my research , I have also discovered that , when the Parliament British the report of Royal Assent occurrences , 1967 , the consent Alaska the summer signalled as the Canadian House of the Lords that the Canadian House of the House of the adoption of the bill to the .
in the , the consent Alaska the summer announced the Canadian second reading , as the senator Cools suggestion that the report with the bill to the S - 7 .
the this issue , Beauchesne body , the comment 726 ( 2 ) the " the use to the the consent Alaska the LG as the pre - the debate on the
in the rule following , Beauchesne held in the comment 727 ( 1 ) the " . the the consent that the LG the not any province reading of the deliberations heading the adoption clear the the bill to the , the use of the House of skilled Commons on the the the the Senate in the Canadian Presented and the motion of second reading of the
the most , he seems that the use of " the consent Alaska the the Canada . the almost have touched the Senate and the House of the House .
in the many cases where the consent Alaska the summer from the LG , I have found that he is usually signalled the Canadian House of the House and affection the the Senate .
in the , I do I found that a case where the consent Alaska the summer signalled in our House .
it is the past , editor , just before the second reading of the bill to the 192 , the Act , the Act , 710 the right .
the use the the Canada . to the consent Alaska the Canadian House of the House only the summer increased by the book the Orders Parliamentary Parliamentary Procedure The Practice concern " Dominion of Canada . John Bourinot , the back to 1884 , in his first edition .
a leadership borrowing the 1886 , 1999 in the fourth edition of Jules , it is the the the consent Alaska the summer signalled , the Canadian House of the House and the " the Senate , in the case of a subamendment , the Senate to a bill to the private the the Commons .
it seems to the acceptable the one Joyal , the automotive the Westminster .
that the in the ice circumstances ?
as I , I have expressed , the not be used a subamendment considerations as the senator Cools the the proposed .
he would be the be better spent raised the question of the Canadian businesses the the Rules and the place . move a subamendment , the reading of the motion of second reading .
however , the subamendment form of the " the Rules , I do I do , the " stipulating , in my good of Speaker , the deadline the debate on the bill to the S - 7 to the reading of the second reading .
the consent Alaska is the - be necessary , but the basis of the primacy Canadian , he seems that is not require treaties that the consent Alaska the the in this chamber .
in determining , I submit that the amendment . is not form and that the debate in paragraph reading on the Bill C S - 7 the the objective .
i move however , the so that the Canadian law . adopted . second reading , the committee which the bill to the will referred at the Canadian . the the consent Alaska .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Poulin , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act , the Parliament of the Canada
bill to the Second - Second Reading - Debate the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Grafstein , seconded by the Honourable Senator Callbeck , seconded the Canadian second reading of the bill to the S - 5 , the Act , the Act , Parliament of the Canada ( poet official of the Parliament ) . -
( the Honourable Senator Kinsella ( .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I rise to do some comments on the principle of the bill to the S - 5 , the Act , the Act , Parliament of the Canada ( poet official of the Parliament ) .
the first , I wish to note , the honourable senators , I support the principle of the bill to the .
i commend the senator Grafstein , the increased this issue of our attention .
traditionally , Britain , Britain , the CHST the Milton official of the Parliament is awarded the the monarque the one poet the the the duty of assisted the odes and the Gulf comm?moratifs .
this is a vestige the Canadian court m?di?vale the reason , the versificateurs and the the m?nestrels were part of the following Royal and also the the time , recent the Canadian and po?tes as Chaucer and Michigan hopefully the the m?c?nat Alaska .
Bradlee Jonson seems to the the Milton official of Charles Ier the 1617 , but the CHST present , in English laureate , learned of the court Greeks and Roman the unique the laurier , the summer assigned to the first time to John crash in 1670 .
small , anecdotique the way , honourable senators , the one time , the loss crash was fought a time , the the urbane political because the the one wrote a pamphlet that they not had not appreciate ; the time was mentioned , the to a poet .
these past years , the part protocolaires the the position . was ?limin?es in a wide the .
the successors imm?diats the crash the summer Thomas Shadwell , Nahum Tate , Nicholas Rowe , Laurence Eusden , Colley Cibber , launched Whitehead , Thomas Warton , Henry Pye and Robert Southey .
the most of these po?tes , honourable senators , the successors the Jonson and the crash , were regarded as the the ?crivaillons ; they are now cup in the dismissal , and human not the preamble , the
William Wordsworth , the 1843 the 1850 , and spread , Lord Tennyson , the 1850 the 1892 , the summer of the applicants authentiques and meritorious - the the people . the doors no - and great puzzling for the people assumaient the part of poet official .
painters Austin , the 1892 the 1913 , is piece in the dismissal , the fair as the the opinion of some students in Jerusalem English .
John Masefield , the 1930 the 1967 , the summer popular the the time , but it is now piece in the dismissal .
Cecil younger - Lewis , the 1968 the 1972 , the museum the Gallery poet the are still surviving , but it is particularly him . our attendance because the the motion of Polish the the acteur Daniel younger - Lewis .
John Betjeman , the the end these functions of 1972 , 1984 and the Canadian Fame . was not extraordinary the the time , the however , a great vision , the Canadian verve .
withdrawal dismissed , the the dual these functions of 1984 , 1999 , the ambulance that the soul , the summer the best poet official has Tennyson .
the the the not the not also gifted that the great poet the the time victorienne , he has probably been a better poet official .
dismissed is much poet official only after the Philip Larkin , as a good number as the best poet British the the 50 years in the fact refused to carry .
the the the was astounding admired as poet , the most of the Gulf the jury the snitch for the the was poet official the summer brush the the point of the be ridiculed .
dismissed the dual the role of poet official for 14 years , the " the death in October 1998 . In the case of dismissed , he is the knowledge of a start to life r?compens?e by a pension of sherry et100 books .
i hope that we can do better that this , Senator Grafstein .
Andrew Motion , the new poet official of the Great - Britain , the beleaguered by the Prime Minister Tony Blair .
Mr. . Motion was earmarked as the most botulinum the the many candidates sugg?r?s and the choice . the one term , the Korean loose to the traditionalistes the reasons Tony Blair , the Prime Minister turned toward the modernit? , would have suspending the the authors namely , the Canadian a " poet the the people to the
sir Paul McCartney , the the Beatles , was a the the names mentioned in the context .
the Milton official of the Great - Britain is still approved by the Queen , but chose to the Canadian a short list by the Prime Minister .
the Milton chosen to write the the Gulf the Canadian family Royal and the Canadian great opportunities Finance and the great ceremonies .
while the Canadian many po?tes mentioned as short , the position . priesthood the this requirement , Motion the commissioner his very good will the Jewish the the - the one Smart the Canadian death of the princesse the Galles .
the Milton Carol Farquard Duffy , the Glasgow , the said that if it was the reader , it would refused to celebrate the Gulf of the events Commanding as the wedding the the Church Edward and the Sophie Rhys - Jones .
it has said , the newspaper The Guardian :
no poet the the respect to be a " the make .
this item the Canadian to the Canadian and that raises .
he is the authority , it would be identified in the context Canadian the the Canadian diversity of our country .
the person to ask if a poet as Gaston Miron , by the , would be the write a Smart to the family Royal .
we could be the be clean the need to write the the Milton the the subject of the state .
i think that is an a not in the right direction .
the committee could add to this proposal .
this is the seaway that the Americans have chosen with great .
when the last poet official is death in Britain , Britain , the many other po?tes the left to the the position . the fatalities not .
the reason , the motion that the most of the one . wished not deal . Humphrey , the the fact that the Prairie to the the dean ?crive the the Milton to the state .
the late poet irlandais Michael Hartnett the previous that the Canadian poetry was a mere the r?bellion .
the Milton Paul Durcan is much a friend . future of Nepean Packwood and the the museum a Smart to the nomination the Canadian Chair of the Republic of Ireland , but Paul is the exception rather than the rule .
Seamus Heaney the past , his life , literacy the the Milton the not recognize not the state of the Canadian and why evident . When .
when a journalist the the York Times Times the types Craig Raine , a poet the Oxford to the authority to the was fortunate to become the next poet official of the Great - Britain , he is the exclam? : " Oh my shy , but the and the the raccroch? .
Andrew Motion , the one cri? the all the merged the the convoitait the Employment , the said that he regarded the position as the one stimulating extremely complex and interesting to a poet . "
he has said :
i think that I wish to the value of responsibility traditional the consistent the drafting of the Milton to the the opportunities augmented , including , but that I wish to many of bone the Employment or , the the least , the write the the Milton dealing the the theme national , broader the I wish to speak .
he has said that he did in particular emphasis the poetry to the school .
he is the atmosphere of the ever write the Milton the members of simply flagorneurs and sentimentaux the .
motion 21.2 the Islington , the neighbourhood of the North the London the vivait Blair before the businesses the p?nates the the 10 , Downing Wall .
he has made his studies the Oxford , and manages the chaire the drafting creative the the University of racism Anglia , the Norwich .
he has issued nine slain the Gulf , prepared a biography of Keats marvel by the criticism and enjoyed the price Whitbread to his biography of Larkin , a poet the the nine the position of poet official .
certainly , the position , as the purpose . is not violation the in high regard , but the leadership for the Anglican risk of creating a great interest .
the paris surveys are made parWilliam Hill , the main agency of paris the Canadian Britain , Britain .
moreover her Duffy , the list of candidates includes Seamus Heaney , Derek Walcott , Wendy Cope , Benjamin Zephaniah , James Fenton , Tom Paulin etGeoffrey Hill .
in a editorial saluant the choice of Motion , the Times the London , the Canadian , the the was
... a poet the Canadian understanding quiet , the one unkind humanity and the one which lyrique .
the implementation is characteristically British , the life of the sea and the the marais salants , the losses personal and the the past national .
honourable senators , I am aware of the time , but I want when the point that the position of poet Chairs diversified the Canadian Library of the Congress is the equivalent American .
the position . was based in 1938 the CHST the chaire the poetry , then , in 1984 , he has been changed to Ambassador .
among the po?tes surveys of the United - United , the fact Robert Penn Warren , Richard Wilbur , Howard Nemerov , Mark Strand , Joseph Brodsky , Mona Van Duyn , Rita Dove , Robert Hass and Robert Pinsky .
in 1984 , Robert Penn Warren the summer appointed the Milton Chairs the the United - United to a period of a year by the Library of the Congress .
the appointment waiting a year , but it is paid .
many , the - that , the trend the concept that the Americans have more of opportunities that the Britanniques with their poet official , primarily because the the role of the many more Conduct .
the my opinion , honourable , the motion of the best role that the the the limit the coasts of the Gulf to the events surveys .
in conclusion , honourable senators , I said that , the my opinion , the bill to the S - 5 , a good idea the credit that the the University carefully .
he would be the be a the the authority , the CHST to poet official the motion of the appropriate .
the the United - United , he is called the " Po?te counsel of the Library of the Congress the .
some po?tes Canadian that I have consulted to the preparation of these memoranda the proposed the the skin the nature of B.C. , the sensibles or culturellement neutres as the Po?te the comparative the Canadian Library of the Parliament , or the Po?te Parliamentary the comparative the Canadian Library national the .
the other friends the terminologie used in the bill C S - 5 a little d?pass?e .
this is a point which the committee , will the Canadian to the bill to the criteria the - be thought .
the committee should also to the nature of the committee , usefulness proposed .
he would be the be a that a poet , the part .
he would be the be a result of the reference to the the Friends of po?tes as The League of Canadian Poets , The Writers' Union of Canada , The African Authors Association , The Regional Writers Association and the other .
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , I wish to the House of the I , the Canadian provide my contribution to the debate , but the late .
the - be the senator Hays would the the clock the debate ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act , the Immigration
bill to the Second - Second Reading - Adjourned the the debate
the Honourable Senator Ghitter )
the honourable senators , I wish to the day in the debate on the reading of the second reading of the bill C S - 8 , amend the Act , the Immigration , the by my colleague the the west of the Canada , the senator Ron Ghitter .
the system of the place to facilitate the introduction and the examination of the bills of the committees . the one of the issues positive the country order .
when I LaMarsh my deputy in the other place , the and I know that , the all for predatory , the same land , applies - to the one bill to the Canadian government private that the merits the the reading of the second reading , he was needed to the the purpose of a number of the filtres .
he not to a little have the the other place . a bill to the Canadian government private that preferred the reading of the second reading and the Aboriginal the one of the
the bill to the " the study of today , the credit to be clarity and the reading ais?e .
i urge urge all those that the question concerned , the in cigarettes a copy .
i am the same sure that is the previous the beginning .
i hope that , after the us in some have a debated . the reading of the second reading , the bill to the S - 8 will referred to the committee .
i think that he deserves the " there lot of the time , not be the the the to push the difficulties inh?rentes the Canadian structure at the the system of Immigration and the favourable the the refugee the the Canada .
the bill to the S - 8 . is not unknown the the honourable senators , were the the powers to the fall 1987 .
he resumed the text of the bill to the C - aged that the Parliament , passed to the time .
the bill to the C - aged not . the in effect been the 1 July 1989 .
the bill to the S - 8 allows the Minister of the Immigration the intrinsic the one homes of entry in the Mackenzie domestic or the sea land of the Canada and , if the homes is involved in the Mackenzie domestic or the sea land of the Canada , he can obtain the the Senate escort? the the Port of d?barquement the most humane .
he is a well aware of ships the transportent the their vetoes , or are unknown the customer the their vetoes , a person in contravention the Canadian Act , the Immigration or the the regulations .
if the homes the very in the Mackenzie domestic the the Canada or in the limit the three miles and that , the new , the Minister of the Immigration the Canadian good reasons of Stalin that the homes transporte the the people who wish into the the Canada . violant the Act , the Immigration or his solution , it is leading the homes to the Port of the future for d?barquer those who are the ship .
this bill to the the summer the in his form original the 1987 , the following the two events .
in 1986 and 1987 , both ships representing the clandestins are upon the the Canada .
the the Prime the coalition of the Tamouls ; they have accost? the Nova Scotia Nova the 1986 .
the the second , twenty the the extradition of the Indes orientales ; they have accost? the Newfoundland - Newfoundland , 1987 .
we have now , the Canadian and passenger representing the clandestins the election of China and the luck the country Coast Fishermen ; they are led by the the trafiquants or the the passeurs .
honourable senators , I am trouvais the the other place in the the adoption of the previous the the bill to the S - 8 .
those who is opposed to the adoption of the bill to the C - aged , the the time , affirmaient that he was achievable .
i am the us we find a way of the in the the the functions .
the the the need lead the the comfort the the ships , overseas before the the deviants or sense to the other means , we must find a way .
i believe that the Canada is leaving a message clear to the classroom those who would make the the profits the the routing the cargaisons human .
as all the honourable the in 1983 , the events of the summer the " the broad the Canadian Coast the Canadian British - British the irrit? the Canadian because the us we had the feeling that the profitait the the system of Immigration - and the refugee - the most open to the world .
the Canadian wished that the government or the use the the combinards the result into the the clandestins the the Canada in the the steamship d?labr?s that we do tol?rerions not the kind actions of users of our laws .
the government . the way . .
unfortunately , he not the not taken the government to discourage these CPAC .
the Minister of the Immigration the announcement , he is the two weeks , the it introduce a new bill to the Act , immigration the the other place during the new year .
a study of the bill to the , in this chamber to the second reading and the the committee , we help to prepare the new bill to the Immigration .
i have forward to continue to debate on the bill to the and the editorials , I , will , the intervention of the honourable the living in the the coasts Canadian .
honourable senators , the motion to insult the the people who joins the be admises the the Canada . as the immigrants standard .
we , Canadians , not we not provide the most worthy gift to the world that the citizenship Canadian .
the path of our country section , the the TAGS , in our ability to monitor our civilization .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I move the adjournment of the debate .
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , I understand that the " I , debate . the debate , but I am asking how we in this continent the meeting . debate for at the
the motion is placed on the name of the senator Ghitter .
we in this , the fourteenth on the debate and a place , the way of Senator the Prime the the subject .
this is the privilege absolute the the senator who is to a question of this nature of the Canadian speak , the .
i know if the St. Germain speaking to the name of the senator Ghitter .
i suppose that they will have heard .
the St. Germain Athens - the the speech , the senator Ghitter ?
is the the the the motion came ?
the St. Germain :
the Canadian the first , honourable senators ,
i talking in my name own .
i have said , the senator Ghitter that I finish to the honourable the the subject .
he is the motion has the I , I express the be the Prime the other the honourable the the reading of the second reading .
i have before this opportunity .
if it breach the the Rules and the Senate , I am sure that , the courts of our own body , as the other the people have said , we can correct the situation .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , for clarify the things , I say that the St. Germain the proposed the motion to the name of the senator Ghitter .
all that is therefore consistent the the Rules .
the St. Germain the the authority to the senator Ghitter for Departmental the this manner .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . )
the application tabled under the Canadian Act , the Transportation the the Canada During the the discussions on a proposal of the area private to the Upholder the one from air - Report of the committee , the Transportation and the the communication - Adjourned the the debate
the Senate proceeded to the study of the second report of the committee on the Canadian and Communications and the the communication ( restructuring of the industry . the transportation Air ) , the " the Senate . 9 December 1998 . - ( - ( Senator Bacon ) .
the Honourable Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , I wish to thank the chairman of the Canadian the committee , the senator Forrestall , and that all the honourable the people in the the Senate . the committee .
during both months , the honourable the subjects carefully the evidence of various groups who is the Criminal the country Committee .
we are we feel and we have discussed with regard to all the issues broader in the report .
i believe that we can be proud of the work that we have done .
our report is balanced and reflects the Province of the witnesses heard .
the members of the committee can be proud of the odd the the end of the fact , I , a the Hon. the the the testimony , a time , the quality of the Senate . the Senate .
the the recommendations , the committee has wanted protect the interests of the Canadian of all the regions of the country .
the members of the committee on the Canadian and Communications and the the communication attentive that these recommendations asset to the Canadian , as the one future immediate that further , a service Air effective , Motor and affordable .
we have also reflected the the lesarticles 64 and 65 the Canadian Act , the Transportation the the Canada are renforc?s to ensure that the transporteur overlooking assure the service now sailing the the communities Canadian .
our recommendation to the subject of the Laurendeau , the knowledge that all the services offered to the public by the transporteur overlooking and his destinations that subject to the Act , the Official Languages , reflects the country will be that governs the services essential are the Canadian . the right to the northern .
the the victims of the Transportation of the Competition , the members of the committee . expressed their concerns the the absence possible . competition in the industry air to the Canada .
this is why , the our recommendations shirt in the or total of suggestions made by the Transportation of the Competition .
the committee recommended that the transporteur overlooking the commitment to play the the cr?neaux regulatory in the the cities key to allow the the , the one competition real .
the committee recommended as the Transport Canada . develop a new the regulatory the the cr?neaux to ensure that they are ports , they not have not used and that a number sufficient that ports , the new players the the market .
in the purpose of help the small carriers the quality of competition into the the committee to the the government review the system informatis? the r?servations to the in eliminate the fleet the d?savantagent the small carriers .
the should also require the transporteur overlooking the WTO the the new players the the market . buy the the point of fid?lisation the the great travellers to a price reasonable .
he should also be held in negotiate the the agreements inter - sponsored and the the agreements of sharing the the codifies the Canadian and conditions reasonable with the new arrivants the the market within the wish to the types agreements .
the committee has ground in long and the broad the Canadian of the WTO the Competition the the companies foreign the the soil Canadian .
he has refused the concept of cabotage rejection , but the concerns a number of the the rights of Beauchesne freedom .
he has a recommendation that the government negotiating with the United - United to allow the sale of Bills of two points to the Canada . the , the vessels in a city of the United - United .
the committee will be the industry air Canada become finally vibrant .
this is why he is the Richelieu the " the point of several , supporting the the Senate that the increase the property rule of participation individuelle the actions votantes in response Canada .
a synthetic the great the the actions have the view some , the effect of increased the performace financial the the business .
in a country covering a if vast territory , the industry air not . not a luxury , but a need .
this is a the the reasons for reasons we have felt it . limit the 20 per the participation individuelle the actions votantes in response Canada .
a maximum of 20 per will the the shareholders of the " the return to the management of the business , the in property the risk of a decision of control foreign .
the other hand , a higher the most of per cent of the participation foreign the response Canada could the in calling the control Canadian of our most important transporteur national .
the same , the committee . concern to the fate tell the the employee RCMP by the restructuring in the .
we fly the the government . insist the Canadian the transporteur overlooking to the the employee have a " a single just the the the the policy , the interparliamentary the the service and the the conditions of the so . such thing . av?rait necessary .
a working particular should be granted to the patient the rotunda .
finally , the committee is the opinion that if the government is to a follow effective the the commitments that he require the the transporteur overlooking , he will ask that the accountability the the accountability to ally in the part of a forum public , as the by the , the the hearings held a time , in the the Board of the Transportation of the Canada , in cooperation with the Transportation of the Competition , and that the result of these hearings , referred to the committee , the Transportation of the House of the House and the the committee on the Canadian and Communications and the the communication .
honourable senators , I believe that is the one good report .
we do cherchions not to protect the public . the shareholders , but rather than the all the consumers across the the Canada .
the members of the committee . debated assiduously many questions .
the the end of the fact , we have succeeded to present a report balanced the testimony of the quality of the Senate . the Senate .
the one time , the report shows how the Senate may look the role of institution Parliamentary independent .
i realize tribute to all the honourable the people attended the our meetings and in the our work .
this are themselves the people like to report be .
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I am pleased to speak today , in the debate on the report of the committee Standing the Restructuration the the industry . the transportation Air the the Canada , the
the person questionable restructuring . " the right .
he envied however , as the one document that the drafting the Senate or the other place . , the .
honourable senators , I wish to congratulate the chairman of the committee , the senator Bacon , for the way , it has led the hearings public and the committee that the n?cessit?es the drafting of the report .
he is difficult to be the the hearings and the drafting a report , the situation that the University changing time .
this is precisely that the the motion a time that the committee was his work .
the senator Bacon , the one good work and deserves all my congratulations .
the the many accused the government . the not act , the lurch let , the short of ideas new , the benefit of the achievements of the governments targeted and , since the tabling of the recent bill to the Act , referendums , the jobs . the worries that the the not there , the not .
seriously however , this resulted and the inability of thanks to address the people have been so apparentes that the the matter of the transportation Air the the Canada .
the possibility of a single transporteur overlooking or the one monopoly we mena?ait been a good across the time .
this is the the when the virtues - " to attack the motion become imminente that the government has tried to act .
he has ray? the the matter of the the organizations , the Canada , includes is the the issues relating to compete .
i refer here , the course , the the Transportation of the Competition the the Canada .
the government has suspended his participation in the Bank and , by the following , the the offer public . Putting released by Onex , the not to the not specifically .
we must be to why the government has done , the
the answer is a "
we do the cumulative not .
what d?rangement extraordinary the announced to the system of transportation national ?
the list of probants disposait the Minister ?
we do the cumulative not .
the , the the important , more , the motion that the one only to the witnesses , which we have yet asked the question , not the same question to a the the issues .
is the - be why the committee has signed the the not the not entirely am the the use the the article 47 of the Act , the Transportation national was indicated in this situation .
honourable senators , we have been we do that the
we have the fly the Canadian reality of the undergoing the the op?raient and the the op?rent , in the area , the time , the
the Minister has asked to the knowledge of the issues of the direction and , in the part of our research , a solution to the question concerned Island , 47 , we have also heard the the evidence on the the direction .
a the the objectives personal that I poursuivais efficient , out of the members of the committee that the commitment to the government previous , the as the Canadian the government of the was the bilateral and the the worst .
the public public be a sufficient , but not to the way of a part regulatory .
our southern reflects the conclusion that the , the way general , the Transportation of the Competition should be the board responsible for protecting the public public in the Transportation air to the Canada .
kidding the the agency of the Transportation of the Canada , through the resulting the Canadian Transportation of the new business and the the new lines air , but let the the Transportation of the Competition the issues related to the monopolies requiring the protection of the public .
it jobs the transfer of the agency national the the Transportation the the Transportation of the Competition the one prepared to the agency Telecommunication the expertise in the area , but it should be a business trade .
honourable senators , my colleagues and I have been impressionn?s by the work pre the little of time , the Transportation of the Competition the this regard .
in the , our report on the industry . the transportation Air , now , the study , the lowest the great the Canadian the report of the board .
the suggestion that the board . the Canadian government , competition . full of imagination , the the critical that he can respond quickly to a situation .
the speed the reaction is the one of literacy to a industry , require the investment the $ the $ the capital and the determination immediate the the time when the resources financial should be net and the extent to the
the government . the time , he disposait , the committee has made a job credible .
i do copyright not in the detail the the recommendations , because I do would be repeat in the Canadian and the the the us just the suggested the Canadian diplomat the Canadian Historical .
i am talking the " that we have been deal more in detail the question of the Income the the companies air regional by the transporteur beyond the one monopoly .
this is a question on the the Transportation of the Competition should ponder , along , because he appropriate to hold the Income the the companies air regional .
i refer to the foundation of competition .
the Canada is a vast country .
some parts not have access the air that the some time , the year .
we must ensure the access Air the the regions turning the country , the little any of wheat the the discussions current on the acquisition of companies air .
the course , I mean in the definition of the turning to the regions of the Canada faiblement peupl?es as the trade , the British - British , the provinces , the Atlantic and the other , the
in addition , the committee . the not presented the deep that I , I wanted , or the the senator Roberge the would investigate , the Opposition to the proposal Air Canada - Hamilton .
a transporteur monopolistique exploitant a company air , efficient , the easily , in a great city of the centre of the Canada , would certainly destroyed the Competition the Canadian the Canadian and Insolvency air , can projeter or had been projeter the establishing a service analogue in this area or any other area of the Canada .
honourable senators , he is giving , in the time , the make the the conjectures the the role counts that the role in the that the Minister of the Transport .
he need to say that he not there any political .
the need to deal of the 47 of the Act , the Transportation the the Canada , then , he not there any evidence that we doubled have terrorism , does the the history of due to examine the role and the lack of leadership of the Minister .
this , any now , honourable senators , the motion that the Minister of the Transport whether the protection of interest of the pressing the the Canada , the the price roof , the withdrawal of the and , particularly , a drop of the standards of security .
he would discover the review carefully and the end of the the recommendations of the committee on the Canadian and Communications and the the communication the listed in the report on the restructuring of the industry . the transportation Air .
i would thank the blood attention .
i wish adjourn the debate on the name of the senator Johnson , if it is acceptable .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Forrestall , the the name of the senator Johnson , the debate is adjourned . )
internal Economy , Budgets and Administration
the Canadian the second report of the committee
the Senate proceeded to the study of the second report of the committee Standing the Canadian Economy Economy , the the Economy , the the board ( the budget of the committee on the report , the Senate 9 December 1998 . - ( - ( Senator Rompkey , P ) .
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , I move the adoption of the report .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is passed . )
the Estimates , the Estimates , 1999 - 2000
leave to the committee , the Finance Finance . to the Estimates , the Estimates
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Murray , P , seconded by the Honourable Senator Beaudoin :
that the Committee on the Canadian and money Finance be authorized to study , to the in the report , the Estimates expenditures in the Estimates , the Estimates for the fiscal fiscal the closing the 31 March 2000 ; and
that the Committee present its report , the most final 31 March 2000 ,
the Act , would the amendment of the Honourable Senator Robichaud , P ( Saint - Louis - the - Kent ) , seconded by the Honourable Senator Hervieux - Payette , P , the Canadian motion be amended by adding , after the words , the Estimates , the Estimates for the fiscal fiscal the Main 31 March 2000 . , the the the following :
the " the exception of the credits 1 , 5 and 10 , the Fisheries and Oceans ;
that the Committee on the Canadian and Oceans be authorized to study of spending expenditures of the Fisheries and Oceans domain in the Estimates , the Estimates for the fiscal the closing the 31 March 2000 ; and
that the Committee present its report , the most final 31 March 2000 . " - (
the Honourable Senator Stollery ) .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , the senator Murray , is not to the House .
the Order the policy , his motion and the the amendments made by the senator Robichaud .
we could the Canadian , deal of this issue as now .
i wanted to the opinion of my counterpart , the knowledge , we should the deal of the absence of the senator Murray .
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud :
we can be the first , the .
the senator Hays :
if I have the right to arrangement , the senator Robichaud be suspended the amendment with the leave of the Senate . the " is that the " may be the motion of the senator Murray .
the senator Robichaud carrying the Canadian first opportunity , probably tomorrow , a motion requesting the Committee of this part of the Estimates Main the the Estimates , the committee , the fishery , since it falls the the Department of the Fisheries .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , if we normally reading by step , we expectations our goal .
the Hon. the Speaker :
i do know that the well . the first . " that the
there has the one of the withdrawal of the motion of amendment ?
withdrawal of the motion of amendment
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud :
honourable senators , I wish withdraw my motion of amendment to the motion of the Honourable Senator Murray .
the Honourable Roch Bolduc :
honourable senators , I wish express the point of the Canadian the committee , the Finance Finance to the subject .
i am the the armed the Canadian . .
the Hon. the Speaker :
a moment .
the senator Bolduc :
the senator Murray , is not present .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the Honourable Senator Robichaud , P , St. - Louis - the - Kent , the " the Senate . leave of mitigating his motion of amendment .
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion of amendment is withdrawn . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , we are the back to the motion of the Honourable Senator Murray .
i am prepared to you hear , honourable senator Bolduc .
the senator Bolduc :
honourable senators , I do I do take the honourable the the name of the senator Murray , but I wish to the the mandate General of the committee on the Canadian and money Finance has always been , except , reservations these past years , the study of the Canadian and approved budget .
however , if a committee , the by the , the committee on the Canadian the Agriculture or a place to look the program of spending the the Department of the Agriculture , he not there has not the problem .
the fight , the mandate . should not show the words , the the exception of the .
the committee , the Finance Finance . telling not necessarily all the program .
he attempts the study of spending the the board public federal in a perspective of political administrative , the Canadian the the the mandate . " no be restricted .
this is in the meaning that the senator Murray would argumenter .
he is the one tradition the the main been mothballed .
he is the many of wisdom in this .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , there has the one wishes to adjourn the motion key to the next sitting ?
the senator Bolduc :
honourable senators , I ask the adjournment of the debate .
the Honourable Senator Hays Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I think that he is the end of Motion to the Hon. the
i have listened , it . Senator Bolduc .
when the point of the Order of the Order the summer called , I have said that , the my opinion , this issue could be dealt enough easily , regulatory as we , we have the
the the future , he is the the the Senate . , the difficult .
i think that we must be gracious accommodants with the Department of the Finance Finance and the motion of the Canadian the make .
if the committee , the fishery examine the Estimates related to the Department of the Fisheries and the the Oceans , it yourself , the Canadian the Canadian the senator Robichaud , the that sounds the seated with the the request the senator Murray .
it is to the " that the will always do so , but to the moment , the motion of the right , in the circumstances .
we should stop the motion to the Hon. the
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
the Organization for the safety and the cooperation in Europe , The eighteenth session Annual the the Assembly Parliamentary Conference , St. - Petersbourg , in Russia , Inquiry
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein , with the rose 30 November 99 :
that he call the attention of the Senate on the report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe , the eighth session Annual the the Assembly Parliamentary the the Organization for the safety and the cooperation in Europe ( OSCE PA ) , held in St. - Petersbourg ( Russia ) the the 6 au10 July 1999 .
while the us closer the the new millennium , the - that osteoporosis the way fair words and the way concise the political foreign to the years of the last century ?
what is the objective of the political foreign ?
he is a the make the the world . place . sure and the peaceful the living .
yet , the war , domin? the political foreign .
our century . began the one such note of hope .
he is a100 years , in 1899 , the tsar Nicholas II of Russia , the " from the St. - Petersbourg , launched a call the Canadian community international to the institution . the Convention Honourable the limit the weapons the the level international and the jobs a new tribunal international submarine the problem . remained of the United by arbitrage consensuel .
he hoped that this apporterait the peace , the years of the new century , after the century century , the summer Women by the war and the one resulted the death of 16 million . the .
the late this year - that , in 1899 , the the pressure the the tsar , a conference international the summer convoqu?e the Government Hague .
in the , this conference historic the fishing the establishing of the limits international the the weapons and the ban the particular , bombs air , and that the establishing a court international to arbitrer the differences between the United the way emissions .
unfortunately , the Canadian a year , later , in 1900 , the message of hope the summer outrageously .
the leadership , the primacy military the foundation .
the construction of cuirass?s , the first , the Germany and then , the honorary , the pace the leadership , the armements dockyard .
the outbreak of kids in the Balkans the leading to the Oklahoma the the Balkans the 1912 and 1914 and the leading then , the famous killing of the Arm?niens .
he is the so , then the First World War and a new " in the lexique the Canadian death : War World .
in granting , the Quiet Russian the cloud .
while the 1918 marked the end of the First World War , the war of the Russian and the Polish the cloud and the unrest in Ireland the are aggrav?s .
a new " the hope the summer said , the lexique the Canadian death , the First World War , the chairman Woodrow Wilson : the autod?termination .
during the time , the agitation the China , is d?velopp?e , conduisant the Canadian War civil during the years at the 40,000 .
in URSS , in the years at the aged that the distortions communistes and the other in the world regardaient , the ?purations massives the $ the people . d?roulaient to the preserve the monopoly the the power to the party bolchevique .
imitant the communism , the nazisme and the reporter ?talaient their banni?res contested the animaient the lowest ?thiopienne the Africa .
with the assistance of the Canada , the Corporation of the United the abortion and the motion enlis?e .
i would be after the war the Spain and the conflict of the communism and the the reporter , conduisant the Canadian Second World War , the first , European , then , Asia .
we are merged the the holocauste .
he remains a thing files .
we are merged the the horror of Peace and the Nagasaki .
in 1945 , the planet did ?puis?e by the horror of the war , but it is there has not have the globe in the massacres .
in strongest 40 , the the r?volutions the summer election in Asia - the East , in Africa and the North the the South .
these years . seen emerging the the Oklahoma , the " the Middle - East .
the years 50 we have made the war the Korean and the procurement the Canadian War , Indochine .
the Hon. the Speaker :
senator Grafstein , I am sorry to you interrupt , but it is 18 at the
that curricula the honourable senators ?
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
i move that His Honour not taking not the time .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is the the Canadian agreed , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Grafstein :
the Canadian reseller the the years 50 , we have been witness the Canadian revolution cubaine , brilliantly followed by the mechanization cultural Chinese , the war the the Vietnam , the massacres the the Cambodge and the Oklahoma the Angola .
the the years of the years 60 , the Ireland the motion of new enflamm?e , apr?s8 decades the war .
the years 70 the view lo the the moins37 conflict important to the world . the world .
i have Telefilm the years 1980 with the war of the Iran and the targets the the years of the , in passing , the Canadian a year , people have been killed , there was the the children soldiers .
the Canadian people have been killed the the years of this War that the all the Oklahoma the people in the " the Middle - East has the beginning of the century , and the that the few kilometres of Supply .
the years 1980 the summer the Canadian the war in Afghanistan , the the Oklahoma tribales the Somalia , the the Soviet the the Koweit by the targets the the appropriateness the Canadian War , the Koweit , the the Oklahoma tribales the the catalogued , the the heat , the long - the Congo and the the Sudan and the the beginning of the war civil , Indonesia , the the Timor oriental , the in America , the South and the North core .
honourable senators , this battle list of famine is far the be discussed .
however , he is the Canadian the hope : the trickle Soviet the motion d?sint?gr? .
i the beautiful years 90 , the last decade is took , the Canadian , the Canadian drop of the " Dickie the .
the collapse of the Yugoslavia , Statistics by the separation created by the West of the Croatia , the appropriateness the the Oklahoma the us we were witnesses in Serbie , in Bosnia and finally , the Kosovo , and with the that the the impuissance the the United Nations .
the Canadian offered the the new millennium , the doesn that he is the more than the 24 flowery the people raged the the world , particularly in Africa , but also the husks .
in our the back , not seem to the the one good part of our lives to the years of the century , the work . was ponctu?e the brief interm?des of the Oklahoma ?
the we , we did the war ?
that we , we have the the Oklahoma ?
that we , we have the the years of the war the the Vietnam and the Canadian , the
our contemporary litt?raires are refreshed the actions and the implications the the various flowery .
why , should the us to the work of the OSCE and the other organizations trying to the democracy by the the average harshness , when we do we are being of look in trouble the the century Women by the death , the that the the name of the state or the Canadian medical ?
in 1994 , Zbigniew Brezinski , former - de the the Speaker Carter the federal - democratic , the coming to the , the in 164 million . innocence victims and the little died the the years of the century .
i have I - the constant that these violent affronts be a caused in the 200 million . died the the years of the present century only .
each decade , the witness the one supporting the the chapter the Canadian violence technologique , the the tueries insens?es , the the mutilations and the the destructions gratuites .
in the case , honourable senators , the need to us to the
that we , we do ?
the condition human the it progress? the the years of the century ?
Tolsto? the pervasive the Canadian and bring pr?liminaires .
he has written that we can tell hope am?nager the small clairi?res in a dense forest .
this is that the us we tried to the OSCE been the agreement of Helsinki the , the one thirty the years .
this agreement . replaced the character sanctity of the path of the state , the character sanctity of the individual .
in a speech just remarkable that he has delivered recently , the Secretary General of the United Nations , Kofi Annan , the acknowledged the chronic the the United and the the United the the people adopted . the resolutions to the preserve the the coastal seemingly , as the United the one . in 1995 , Srebrenica , the so that the Canadian , the community international the passivement was witness the the killing serbe the most of 7 per victims innocence the , believing the words of the community international , the were advanced the the flag Blue and white the the United Nations only to be massacr?es the the look the the cam?ras the television .
recently , we have examined the resolutions of the United the the Timor oriental and pr?conisant strongly the independence , then we have seen the United look immobile the killing of the third of the people who believed that the United would require the respect to his resolutions .
the resolutions of the United Nations have the provinces extremist the ground of slaughter of the Timor oriental the most of 200 $ people of the land appauvri the summer killed by the Place of the state of the Indonesia ?
the Hitler is the most worthy compliment .
the action . the NATO the the Kosovo the guest the Russian the the follow the Tch?tch?nie .
the history . shame .
the number of the dead is spent the five million to the devastation century , 16 million to the century century , then , the the least 200 million to the century century .
the late Cecil Augustus Wright , Madam the Canadian Faculty of the the I have fr?quent?e , the cit?M. the Krever Felix Frankfurter the the opening of the Faculty of the Canadian the University of Toronto , 1967 .
here is that he has said :
as fragile that is the reason and also limited to the the right to the the " the the m?dium institutionnalis? the Canadian the , the motion . the the us harsh the Canadian tyranny the Canadian corporation will and the Canadian response to a wit d?brid? and indisciplin? .
yet , we have learned that the principle of the primacy of the right . worth not to the not . not ?tay? by the power .
this is that the unfortunate paradox the the century century .
honourable senators , not we , we not wish to the next millennium that the primacy of the right complying the character sanctity of the life much of standard than that the exception , and that it be formulate by the political and the power to the political ?
yet the pan not rime the way , the United - United , first super - Oath and Leader global the Canadian democracy , confiscation of punishing a wide international allowing the one court international the objective of the offender the war , or a wide the control of the armements super , or even a treaty property the Sudan nuclear .
this was the bad bodes to the peace World in the years 90 .
we must be ressaisir and hope that , for the next millennium , we reach the extent of the smaller a century better that the the us we inherited and that we have ruined .
honourable senators , Wiesel Wiesel the , before the that the railways the vote popular , the spectacle the Flame the the memory in the century barbare , the recent article And " Sea version Never Full , the second volume of the briefs .
he we remember that , in the Gen?se , when Toner the fui the rest , the mordu in the negotiation defended , the Hon. the ambulance the European to : " Toner , the champion - smokes ? "
if it God is around and that he is omniscient , why would the the regulation the knowledge the the amorphous Toner ?
the us play that God knew where the amorphous Toner .
god did the Vice the use the - the the the the amorphous and the the the one . .
the us situons - we are the same in the history ?
that we , we have the country life ?
each of the person , will the the manner .
we must put in the the work accomplished by each of the organizations succeeds to the Order peaceful the the differences .
i trust hope that the answer to us will continue to the century next will the interesting the same the the present century .
that the next generation we surpasser .
the guarantee determined to the century , this is the architect not very high .
there has the one truth , Yolande the us not granted , the in the Canadian political foreign ?
in the two material section can the be a solution to the ?nigme the Canadian barbarie enfouie the the heart of the condition human .
the professor Pagels the Canadian light on the origins of the d?monisation the the " and the Canadian first exerc?e by a faith , imit?e then , the state s?culier .
we do we are brought to canvassing the causes of the difficulty the lives in the heart of the men and the the women .
the difficulty . - the grav? the deep and the manner ind?l?bile in the spirit of those who hold the power and the Farm yet silent , inertes or , worse , indifferent to the actions of barbarie committed , the other , their own most ?
is the the that the strange moral the the last millennium - see the act , and the hope for the next millennium - the the words assorties the the actions ?
the , the the not a paradox surr?aliste in the the I global ?
i soutiens that the war s?me the death and yet , I global that the " it is the war to maintain the peace , the the " really the the aspect ?nigmatique the my own findings to the century century .
Sunday the , the author American Joseph Heller , author of Catch 22 , is away .
the following a critical :
honourable senators , I am front of context , a short smooth the the novel Catch 22 :
the cool to say that he is the one attrape ? "
the well that the the , the one attrape the , r?ponditDoc.
the " no , help not .
all those who want to the service borne not have not really wildest . "
he not there was that a attrape and the was that the losing of the way , the basis of the time when the morosity the the safety in the Canadian dangers real and imm?diats is the fact , a wit rationnel .
Orr could stay the land because the the was tackle .
he was Corel the the authority ; but , as the the the pinnacle , he cessait the be tackle and was hoping the other missions .
Orr would have tackle the work of the inevitable and fair to the not the make , but the the was widest the spirit , he was the make .
the the the exception , he was tackle and not had not to the make the but the the not joining not the make , he was widest the spirit and the " the make .
Yossarian was complete boulevers? by the extreme simplicity the this impasse and Revenue a sifflement admiratif .
the the motion of a Mexican the , observa the .
the Canadian , Manitoba , the acquies?aDoc.
honourable senators , the motion . the I can say , as the this end of 100 and the millennium remarkable .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
if no other senator . I take the honourable , I submit the debate on this inquiry debated .
the Ontario
the Honourable Marie - P Poulin , with the rose Thursday 9 December 1998 :
that it call the attention of the Senate on the decision of the government . the Ontario , not . the one recommendation to the make the Ottawa . city bilingual , his restructuring proposed .
the Thursday 9 December , I have brought a notice of inquiry .
why the government . the Ontario , he chose to the not follow the recommendation of the aviseur , Mr. Glen Shortliffe ?
what message sent to the the Canadian of our country ?
what respect demonstrates the to the Constitution of the Canada ?
what recognition top the " the fact , the minority language of the Ontario , the the Quebec , the the provinces telling , the the West and the the Grand North ?
what respect indications - that the Ottawa , the Canadian the Parliament Canadian , the Canadian public service federal , the the celebrating the the world world ?
honourable senators , several of the us pocket speak on the many questions raised by my inquiry , and other the senator Jean - Robert Gauthier .
honourable senators , ?coutons the senator Gauthier .
Ses40 years of commitment to the principle basic the the respect to the history of our country and the the character Lorne the our two cultures fondatrices we will very useful in this inquiry .
the - time , I devoted my remarks of TAGS to my speech , Croatia the " that inquiry , the late .
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , I wish to first , first thank the senator Poulin , his kindness and the the good words .
this is a subject enough thorny and , for the well Games , either .
in the the human born in Ottawa , Pyongyang the Ottawa and there , lived the the life , I find that debate difficult .
the 6 December last , the government . the Ontario , the one bill to the inclusion the Bank of Abandoned in Ottawa - Carleton and the other regions in Ontario , for the make the the cities collegial .
the legislation regarding the region . Ottawa - Carleton based in the part of the report Mr. Glen Shortliffe , expert - board the one was appointed by the province to study of reform local .
the report , the public the 26 November 99 , contained the many recommendations regarding the new quoted .
a the the recommendations proposed the Canadian new quoted the Ottawa , amalgam?e , the institutionnellement bilingual .
however , in the in the bill to the , not the not chosen this recommendation , the Canadian capital of the country . city record bilingual .
the legislation that the " to a time , deliberately hosted , it will the power to decide the the conditions political language to the
in the report on the restructuring , Mr. Shortliffe recommend that the arts the Ottawa , the motion , new on official , the bilingual .
in the preface the Hon. the , he said that the region . the " fragments single the Canadian francophone and the English in this area .
he set his recommendation in writing :
a the the issues . the important raised during the consultation public was the question of the Laurendeau institutional .
the Canadian cent per - the new ideas of Ottawa will speaking .
Ottawa . the city single in this province and the the country , it is the capital of the Canada .
our nation . the Official Languages , the the record .
the government national operating the Canadian Act , the Official Languages ; the English and the French .
the capital national must mirror the character of the the country and the goodies the presence in his people of a significant minority francophone .
in determining , I quote encoreM. Shortliffe in the report :
i commend the Canadian law contains essentially and reclassification the City of Ottawa record bilingual , in French and the English .
i must note Mr. Shortliffe the , the way attributes , recommended that the new quoted the seeds bilingual by the Parliament of the Ontario and the not the the new provision of the municipality the Ottawa .
the most , Mr. Shortliffe the entry that he will the the individual the the high the Canadian the arts the Ottawa . determine the scope and the nature of the services , will available in the two languages official of the country .
he is true that , in the Constitution Canadian , the regulatory the the governments municipal is entirely of juridiction provincial .
in the case of the region . Ottawa - Hull , he is the one another level of authority based by the government , the the Order of the Canadian the capital national , the motion ? " - that the region . the capital national .
the bill cr?a the board of the capital national , the succ?dait the Canadian Wheat the the Liberal government .
the authority to create the region . the capital national the summer established by the power constitutional r?siduel , the " Revised to the peace , the Order and the good government . the Canada , the
he is the number options available allowing the correct this decision of the province of the Ontario the the Laurendeau in the capital federal .
the courts will the in serving to clarify this issue .
i do I do lawyer , but I am sure that he is a the the difficulties .
the Parliaments provincial and the authority to adopt the the legislation regarding the municipalities .
the government . the Ontario was open the acceptance or the Lower the recommendation Mr. Shortliffe .
the Canadian , the Canadian recent decision of the courts of the Ontario the the Ste Monfort the use of argument in the passage .
you know , the ladite decision of the Court divisionnaire the summer scope the call and I hope that the r?ussira the information justice . on the the the concerns of the Canadian health , Ontario .
the 29 November 99 , the Court divisionnaire the the Ontario , in a judgment unanimous , the expiration the blundering of the board on the restructuring of the services of health , the one ordered the closure of the Ste Montfort as hospital General for the make a bigger clinical .
the court . foetus that the Ste Montfort was necessary to the collection of the community speaking in the province of the Ontario .
the courts . " that the commission . was not comparing the Victoria the role constitutional that role of Immunology Montfort as centre is speaking necessary to the promotion and the the development of the identity franco - law .
the minority francophone the the Ontario is a critical cultural and language and it has need to his institutions , guarding his culture and his French , the assimilation .
the judges the union that the government . the Ontario , the Canadian respect to allowing the Canadian protection of the minority in all its actions .
they were the agreement for the the the French . a right constitutional the virtue , the assimilation , because they are part of a community cultural the the Canada and the the one of the two groups language the the rights . ench?ss?s in the Constitution .
the courts stated , and I quote :
... - ... the the the the principle of the protection of the minority - including the protection of the minority francophone - is a principle independent the subamendment , underlies the Constitution and the the one of contraignant the the governments , the courts must address , when he is the place , for the one protection against the government spenders the will the the supreme the the principle .
some Pages the decision made in the case of the Ste Montfort as a leadership unacceptable . militantisme judicial .
the U.S. Financial the perpetrators the the subject .
if you are involved , you , there , but not you choquez not .
the fight , the other feel that it offers the - be a weapon puissante to the protection of the rights of the minority .
the decision to add largely the the two judgments that the Court Supreme the the Canada has made recently the one , in the case of the Renvoi the Canadian 237 the the Quebec and the other in the case Beaulac , judgments in which it has maintained the right to a man of the British - British the one civil bilingual .
we apprenions yesterday that the board of restructuring of the services of health asked the authority to interjeter call the Canadian decision made by the Court divisionnaire the the subject of the Ste Montfort .
the government has said that he welcomed , demonstrates this instance .
the so . action . Her not succeeds not to abandon the government . the Ontario , run the new accommodation the Ottawa as stating bilingual , it would serve the Canadian and for the political public .
it would certainly the effect of the make know the question .
if it was delay the consolidation of the municipalities regional , the the pressure the exerceraient the the government provincial and the fight , it would the impetus the Opposition and the ranks the most of lending to deal of the to all the question of the consolidation .
the Senate . the subject of representing the regions of the country and especially the protection of minorities .
a motion could be tabled the the Senate Committee on the government . the Ontario , run the new accommodation the Ottawa as stating bilingual .
the this regard , he is the note that the Assembly national the the Quebec . adopted a motion such .
the Parliament , the not . did the get the one case clear provincial and the fight , the government . the Ontario . hesitant not to the get the the business federal , the tax .
he we have the the recommendations quasiment the all the day to drive the magazines .
if the not . not the the missiles provincial , I do know that is that is the .
moreover , he is the one minority francophone appr?ciable in the region . Ottawa , the courts recognize the most of the Canadian protection of the minority as a principle the - purports the Canadian Constitution , a principle which has a value constitutional .
the recent judgment the the Ste Montfort report on the question of the so , education speaking to be replaced by a farce bilingual .
the bill to consolidation of the city of Ottawa , by the , not to the Canadian . the the Laurendeau .
however , he is significant that some of the municipalities who will regroup?es , including , Vanier , Gloucester and Cumberland , the one people speaking appr?ciable , the one long tradition of bilingualism official .
the lack of protection of these communities in the new accommodation there , the issues such a pre that sick the case of the Ste Montfort .
the the ever let the new accommodation the Ottawa decide whether it wishes to follow record bilingual .
it would decide the not . the make or back to the Act , the .
the most of oppression , he explain to the Canadian law provincial overdue treating the Canadian . .
the question of the Laurendeau the be very cause , as the the case of the case David Levine and the Canadian the Ste Montfort .
he would the minister of the government . the government . the Ontario , to the Canadian leadership in d?cidant the privatization as the beginning of town regroup?e as stating bilingual .
the report Mr. Shortliffe is carefully prepared and affordably .
as it . carried , the character speaking and English - the region . the Canadian , fragments single .
the government . the Ontario should stop the implementation this important recommendation .
in the decision that it has made in the case Monro , in 1966 , the Court Supreme the the Canada selection clear the power to the government , the Canadian initiatives the Canadian capital national .
this is that some other , should or the previous topic Ottawa . the session and the the other regions of the Ontario .
the Court Superior the the Ontario , the most reminded the four principles which the - barristers our Constitution : the democracy , the Evolution , the constitutionnalisme and the protection of the minority , particularly the minority francophone .
these principles . was set the Canadian Court Supreme the the Canada in the causes Barbosa physicians , the Renvoi the Canadian 237 the the Quebec and the case Beaulac .
the Government of the government in Ontario , whatever let the Canadian city of Ottawa , along the city record bilingual .
he is possible that this process result of two reasons : the refusal of the government provincial and the perceived as pro - speaking and , second , the desire to the not raise the door to the Laurendeau official of the Ontario , such as described in the Constitution of the country . the article 133 .
in conclusion , honourable senators , I emphasize to say that the city of Ottawa . single .
it is the capital national the one country record bilingual .
if it is leave of capital national , I say , if the and continue to expect the the benefits drawn the the status , it should be putting bilingual .
in the Canadian the role of capital national , the city of Ottawa . origins to the border the the Quebec and the the Ontario .
it has a history and a crop French off and the one minority francophone appr?ciable .
the one time , SUCCESS growing the Canadian Confederation and the 237 the the Quebec , the question of the nature bilingual the Canadian capital national importance of the symbolic .
moreover , he is the one minority francophone appr?ciable in the region . Ottawa , the courts recognize the most of the Canadian protection of the minority as a principle the - purports the Canadian Constitution and a value constitutional .
the Globe and Mail . the not been so generous to the question of the Ste Monfort .
the future . " to the kind .
this is the motto of the newspaper - gers , our daily speaking in Ontario .
this is that the us hope .
the Honourable Serge Joyal :
moreover , it abolit the one has the paper the result of several years of fighting and that the , it fragilise the new the community minority franco - law , it populace the furthering the philosophy fundamental , the ideal that we are we have the the country where the in his much national , the two major communities language fondatrices can live in the revised , the developing and the tree the the Polish the one of the other .
the governments precedents the the honourable John Robarts , Bill Davis , David Peterson and Bob Rae not have not been so cold .
the government Harris not to the motion . the fact , but it attack the idea Canadian in his valued the .
he is the in the unprecedented a d?n?gation the our aspirations , a ignorance troubling the the efforts of those and those who we have predecessors , and a so , imposed on the prejudice and the Beijing the , believed - we , they Multicentre the the leaders , we gouvernent .
Ottawa . is not a city as the other .
this is the main Kaelan the Canadian capital of the Canada .
the government and the Parliament of the Canada op?rent in the two languages official of the country .
the Constitution Canadian . pourvoit and the Court Supreme the the Canada . the principles demonstrated in the Supreme the the 20 August 1998 , the 237 the the Quebec .
this case is fundamental to understand the principles which we govern and the are the Canadian telecommunications . our life democratic .
these principles , led - the , are the the number of four : the Evolution , the democracy , the constitutionnalisme and the rule of the , and finally , and the the less , the protection of the rights of the minority .
this is the the last principle , the Canadian protection of the rights of the minority the , the I wish attention your attention .
honourable senators , I am the opinion that the decision of the government 500,000 the GST the legislation identify the Canadian city of Ottawa and the Vanier , the their doctors the status of town to bilingual the to the headwind by a place . the this protection is disparue , is , the my opinion , anticonstitutionnelle and reverse the the principle basic the protection of the rights of the minority language recognized by the Court Supreme the the Canada in the Supreme the the 20 August 1998 .
how can the us stay passive the Canadian man9uvre the challenge to abolish the status bilingual the two cities , Ottawa and Vanier , for the shrink in a great . fusionn? , ignorant systematically the impact that a moment this will the the rights of the community minority of French official ?
meaning , the previous ; it adds the way , the provision of the great deal to do ignored the 132 years of fighting .
the the the view recently in the example of the Ste Montfort .
he has one of superb the fusionner with three other hospitals the Canadian initiatives the Ottawa - Carleton to the make meaningful the one has the paper .
the Court Superior the the Ontario , recently , the 29 November the , in a judgment unanimous the three judges , cass? this decision to the ground that it was purport , because the contrary to the protection of the rights of the minority franco - law .
let - I , out of the key to the judgment of the Court of the Ontario in this matter .
the courts . the first saw that the Ste Monfort jouait a role which Dahomey largely the region . Ottawa - Carleton to the Consolidated the Canadian province full .
it has the most warmly that the community franco - law was struggle time , the forces the assimilation to the abandonment .
the courts . " , and I quote :
this late found to the page 6 , the judgment .
the abandonment , these communities language be able to support the one system of institutions , supportent their development and shortages the forces the assimilation .
i quote :
the character speaking of their institutions . " become the most of the important to fulfil the role which is the preserve and the protection this culture .
this transition is unavailable the Canadian page 7 , the judgment .
the , these institutions be proper in a range of jurisdictional the activities Social , ranging that possible for the " the community minority of the developing and the preserve its vitality .
the institutions are also the the symbols important to the community franco - law .
they reflect the identity of the , the presence French , Ontario and the the Canada , the fact French in the life public and the strength and the vitality of the community .
this late . in the Canadian page 7 , the judgment .
the courts . recognized the importance of the language French to support the life of the community .
the language French is the part cultural basic the Canadian community franco - law .
the very that the Canadian page 8 , the judgment .
honourable senators , all these things . the municipal - they not , he is a the Canadian new accommodation the Ottawa , the the French . the Canadian 125 $ citizens and future . the rate per - the people overall ?
the city of Ottawa . is the it is , for the most of the , the old land of the board of the capital national , it is the board bilingual ?
how the French - the country , the s?journent in the capital for the portion their region , r?agissent - they faced the the Beijing the the government 500,000 the the respect to the symbol the Canadian the life national ?
the the odd the Ottawa . the d?ja including the
why cancel the the years of Albertans linguistic to come to get the French , anyway the Canadian barricade the the land ?
why healthy the new and tensions political when the peace linguistic the successful the the establishing in the respect linked ?
the , the decision of the government 500,000 is contrary to the spirit of our Constitution .
it violates the commitment to respect to the equality of the two communities , the motion of Service the Canadian the tremendous Canadian .
the Court Superior the the Ontario , the well reminded : the principle of protection of the rights of the minority , and I quote :
... not make no , the poll the Canadian and the .
they infusent the life in our Constitution .
the the the Senate . the principles the - revealed and the writings of the Constitution , they could however , notable the the rights legal internal the limiteraient significantly the action . the government ; the addition , these principles are the so west of a force normative puissante and tie the Canadian , the courts and the governments to the
the this regard , the courts citait the Renvoi Covenant the Canadian 237 the the Quebec ... 1998 , given R . C . S . 217 ... , page 248 and 249 the the opinion of the court .
the Canada , the said , acting Supreme , is a democracy constitutional .
the just , the principle of the constitutionnalisme bear that the action . the government respect to Constitution .
the very that the Canadian page 8 , the judgment .
the government legislation . the government 500,000 , the abolit the status of town bilingual to the new accommodation the Ottawa -
... must be measured the the aune the Canadian , safeguards the the minority the , the one of the principles structurants basic the Canadian Constitution .
if the conduct is wrong and violates the principle , the courts of review the wishes -
it is the " the page 20 , the judgment .
honourable senators , he we must learn the findings the the CWB .
would be the principle of the protection of the minority - and especially the the minority francophone - is a principle independent and the - purports the Canadian Constitution , a principle fresher the one which normative puissante the claim the government , the courts must address the the need to protect lesdites minorities , the intervention of the government , will the the supreme the the principle .
this late . in the Canadian page 23 , the judgment .
the citizens French - the city of Ottawa and the Vanier , and , the one another degree , who , the cities of Cumberland and the Gloucester wealthy their right to receive the Canadian new accommodation the the services in French .
he , prosperous the same for the other Canadians who s?journent the Ottawa to the portion their commettants , and the or their District Senate , as the motion of the to me , the .
he we must then mean to the government 500,000 that the the leading the reconsidered the legislation which abolit to the new accommodation the Ottawa . status of town bilingual , a passage will business before the courts beneficial knowledgeable to do declare nulles and the creative the provisions of the bill to the the aboliraient the recognition of the French in the statuts the Canadian new accommodation .
honourable senators , he is the one inequity conviction the simplest a right , the Canadian a bill to merger the legal the noyer in a great . the community , disposait before the right sufficient .
he would really too than the way , for limit the principles which are the Canadian telecommunications . our Order constitutional .
this is that the ideal the the motion to the basis of the identity and the Canadian characteristic of our country .
this ideal . is not attained , and the need to the work , he not there has not the repos to those who , used .
we do we to the Canadian and politicians provincial , the short , the Bar the vision national , attack , our ideals , the us r?agissions with the average that the bill fundamental the country , we redistribute .
the worries not the unprecedented become the symbol of the Great the country community , fighting the tailler his place in the capital of our country .
honourable senators , the motion my firm the Canadian I get the the the one stock , disability the business against the bill commissions the refuserait the goodies the rights learning of the minority francophone the Ottawa and the all the citizens of the country , believe deeply in the equality of Refugee the the two languages official .
Prouvons that a time that a government has recognized a benefit of Refugee the country community , he not be more affirmative the manner discriminatory , and create the new the inequality .
he is the lines years , I entamais the the court against the Minister of the Transport and the time , I personally government , for the seat quite a settlement prevented the use of the French in the cabines the pilotage ; it is the lines years , I entamais , a passage of December Canada , from the Canadian Crown , for the governing the the seat the tools to do the the French a language of the in developing .
the two actions have been welcomed Right by the courts Canadian .
he is the 17 years , the CHST the Secretary of the Canadian the Canada , I contribuais the end of up the program of challenge judicial to help the communities minority of Official Languages to do respect to the .
the day , the the will be recorded the the program for support our determination to the guarantee the floor and the rayonnement .
the government 500,000 the announcement of the the judgment of the Ste Monfort the call .
he has always appropriate to the challenge the legitimacy .
congratulations the fight , if necessary , the in jail Supreme the the Canada , that the our rights be assured their last recognition .
i urge the the honourable Marie - P .
Poulin , Jean - Robert Gauthier , the the citizens of Ottawa and the first , Canada , activists the the courts for protecting their rights and those of all those who believe in a country where the equality of the French and the the English . a ideal the civilization and the freedom single to the dignity human .
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I would like to the question to the senator Joyal .
the Hon. the Speaker :
since the time allotted to the senator Joyal is elapsed , let - you to the Honourable Senator the intention to question of the issues ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , he reads the be inoculated and some of the us . the the obligations .
the senator Grafstein :
honourable senators , I devoted the point of the Opposition the the Opposition to the spirit and I am short .
the question is important .
we have heard three senators French . the the subject .
i have a comment and a question to present the the Honourable Senator .
personally , I find incompr?hensible that the political bipartite the the government . the Ontario . the not been the kind of the prior to the energetic .
the first ministers Robarts and Davis , the the Liberal Party , the Prime Minister Peterson , the the Liberal Party , and that the Prime Minister Rae , the the NDP , would certainly irrit?s - and I hope that we are mouth to their view , the this diversion and the gamineries the the government . the Ontario .
i am that the CHST the senator , the region . Toronto .
if the Honourable Senator will the the prior with the use before the courts , I am pleased to do furthering common with him to the Canadian Senator as Toronto .
he is important that the the honourable not French their the Canadian and dissatisfaction the the political resolutions in the region . the future .
the first duplication the face the duty geographical the Canadian Wheat the Canadian capital national , the the , I trust , the the make a one bill to the Canadian government Parliamentary the " the Senate .
the result , he is clear that the the land of the capital national is bilingual .
second , the the Pan the use the the power to rush the Canadian law provincial the body of the federal ?
the senator Joyal :
honourable senators , the question that the senator Grafstein there is a question , the in the , is complicated .
the board of the capital national not subject . the federal , allowing the specific the the services municipal in the the areas as those of the overall , the police , the the facilities the unpaid , and Fundamental .
the Canadian Wheat the Canadian capital national , the provisions of coming urban understand the other duties , particularly in the with the presence of the government , the
i refer here , the services of the and other , the date , a number of the recoupent those of the board municipale .
the so we we expand the limits of the board of the capital national to the provinces regroupent the whole of the land served by the new accommodation , the limits of the new accommodation the Ottawa would regulated by the bill as the motion of the Canadian the city at the
in the the concerns of the Canadian repeal , the honourable senators price that is the one issue . complex .
the Court Supreme the the Canada has administering the one power to the be proved as the so long that he found in the Constitution .
however , the motion . the question on the should be dealt the government . the Canada , a recommendation was made to the gouverneure General of the Canada in the context and the settlements the the the power to the not been used for the long .
the the one was used , the would the Canadian and circumstances exceptional .
this could be there a raccourci to exercise the Canadian academic that we wish to the the long - and means the biological be . , effective .
he would be to all the Canadian of all the provinces that a decision that decision in the matter .
i do the senator Lynch - Staunton , the other side of the House .
he knows that North Hatley and Ayer' s Cliff are in the Canadian fusionner in the same context .
however , if the cities fusionnent , North Hatley perdra the status of town bilingual that the acceptance the rule 13 f ) the Canadian Act , the language French , the Quebec .
they want fusionner the services .
some 40 per - the people of the new accommodation would the language English , the the the taxpayer by the loss of their status bilingual .
this issue importance of such staff that he is impossible to the changes to find the the inclusion of a power to repeal .
he is very important in the country . the rights individual the Canadian minority , the it be the language English or the language French , that guaranteed .
in the other words , a time that these rights . was recognized , they not have the Wheat transfers , the the objectives administrative the are shaped the the plan fiscal but who equivalent to a confederation total of these same rights for the minority .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Fraser , the debate is adjourned . )
the Senate
motion of peace - the Orders of Royal Assent - Maintien the Canadian motion
the the call the Canadian motion No. 43 :
that the Senate . the Canada says the Orders of Royal Assent to the Senate , such as it is described by the authorities in order Parliamentary Norman Wilding and Philip Laundy : " - borne pratiqu?e the the Canada is the the ages the apparenter the most of the distinct the .
that the Senate reaffirmed the right sovereign of Her Majesty , such as it is set in the Act constitutional the 1867 , and the the authority to Her the authority to procedures parliamentarians and the bills of the flag , the " and Senators or adopted in the two Houses of the Parliament ;
that the Senate , in the the House of Her Majesty authority to Royal Assent , states the right constitutional ancestral as the Canadian the Parliament , convergent the Senate . the three branches the the Parliament unnecessary the in the the Parliament of the Canada ;
that the Senate states the right to the Parliament , the " lex parliamenti the , the bill ancestrale the body that the consent Alaska is required to the study by the Parliament of the bill to the or any Rules Parliamentary the commerce the prerogative of Her Majesty ;
that the Senate states that the Orders Parliamentary the " by a member for the the consent Alaska is the table the this effect of Motion to question to Her Majesty , the the topic of the other forms of request of agreement Alaska concerning the access to the Minister of the ministers in the fiscal the people responsibilities event ;
that the Senate states the requirement of the the consent of Her Majesty before the Senate into a bill to the the affectera the prerogative Royal , the the example of the consent Alaska the the summer , by the Queen Elizabeth II , the Royal Assent Bill , 1967 , the the summer the " the House of the Lords the the U - Parliamentary by the Grand Chancellor Gardiner the the reading of the second reading of the bill to the , the 2,500 March 1967 :
the answer Seigneuries , I am responsible for Majesty Majesty the Queen of going to the the Queen Majesty , with the exception of the subject of the bill to the , hear , to his prerogative and the public , in the extent the people are carried by the bill to the , the Canadian section of the Parliament , the purpose of the bill to the . "
the the the summer speech , weeks . later , the 17 April 1967 , the Canadian House of the House of the U - Parliamentary by the Hill General Sir Elwyn Jones :
the I am responsible for the Queen of going to the the Queen Majesty , with the exception of the subject of the bill to the , hear , to his prerogative and the public , in the extent the people are carried by the bill to the , the Canadian section of the Parliament , the purpose of the bill to the .
i have the honour to propose the the bill to the Senate now read a second time . "
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I point of order .
the so , sponsor of this motion , the senator Cools , not . not present , if I do there is that the date , I could be charged the not . the have raised as the I have been the make .
i move that the Canadian rule of the anticipation the CWB in the case , the
indeed , if this motion is placed on the Order , the same question . figurera a second time .
the first , in conflict with the second .
as the rules the comment 512 ( 1 ) the Canadian sixth edition of the precincts :
( 1 ) The ban the draft , in the other words , removal of disability , earlier , provided a matter placed on the Order , lots of the same practice that the rule the funeral the privilege of the Canadian , the " the years of a session .
i draw the blood attention of the comment 512 ( 2 ) .
i point of order for the I believe that the Bill C S - 7 . the form of the most effective that the motion of the senator Cools .
the result , the bill to the S - 7 should be above , and the motion of the senator . should not included the the Order .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , the senator Cools . is not here now .
i ask that the the honourable senators , the the indulgence the " the least , to the opportunity to the courts on the use the the Rules and the senator Lynch - Staunton .
i move that the frustration the discussion on the use the the Rules tomorrow , in attendance of the Honourable Senator .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , we do we are the no motion presently .
a notice of Motion the summer , by the Honourable Senator Cools .
the result , he not there has nothing on what I can make a decision .
i understand however , the Canadian , the the fact point of the senator Lynch - Staunton .
i have examined the situation , but I do I do to the the us not properly not before the Canadian motion .
the time came , I am pleased to reflect the Canadian . the the Rules .
( the debate is stands . )
( the Senate . adjourned . the 1998 , 15 December 1998 , the 13 at 1:30 . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 22
the 1998 at December 1998
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the dumping
Maxwell Tabled '
the l?gendes the the hockey
the team Canada 99
the appointment of the Vice - Governor Revised Hole
visitors in Gallery
business routine
the application tabled under the Canadian Act , the Transportation the the Canada During some carriers air enhancing the salaries - Introduction of the third report of the committee , the Transportation and the the communication
energy , Environment and gas natural
introduction of the second report of the committee
the adjournment
the group Inter Canada - Japan
tabling of the report of the delegation Canadian , the tenth meeting bilateral Annual with the group of friendship Canada - Japan
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
tabling of the report of the delegation Canadian , the meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary the the Organization for the safety and the cooperation in Europe , held in the 17 , the 19 November 99
the Association legislation Canada - China
tabling of the report of the delegation Canadian , the second meeting Annual , held in the 25 , the 31 October
the Senate
the licensing of a refugee bilingual the Canadian city of Ottawa - Notice of Motion
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Finance
the Transportation
the Defence down
the replacement of the helicopters Sea King
the health
the increase the the Estimates , Research the the Breast the the public
the Council of the Treasury
the cabinet the the Prime Minister
the Vice - Governor of the Nova Scotia Nova Scotia Nomination the Hon. XII. - Possibility of a choice , partisan
on business orders
the Senate . the Senate
bill to the Canadian credit No. 3 to 99 - 2000
second reading
bill to the Canadian 99 to the implementation of the Canadian taxation tax
third reading of Debate the the debate
the Senate
the 1998 at December 1998
the Chair . Chair . In at 1:30 , the Speaker , the the Chair .
prayers .
the l?gendes the the hockey
the team Canada 99
the Honourable Francis William Mahovlich :
honourable senators , I wish to the giving my firm of the team Canada 99 . It , the date 27 years , the " S?rie the the century , the in the , in 1972 , when the world . diversify the charge a moment to attend the Canadian , happily the the Canada .
the this time , as the day , he is the Canadian and the - hour political .
our trip the summer organized primarily Mr. Cosmos Tikanov , the objective of the make elected as Governor of the region .
Mr. . Tikanov not . not the one phenomenon policy , he holds the Canadian Olympians Olympics and sportives that the important , the one we .
my trip the to the Canadian I would the plight by me , the the changes to the are op?r?s the fate and the Russian been 1972 , and the role of technical contrast , a victory the 1972 and a defeat the 1974 .
our team was opposed to the protocol , earthy the Fame the Canadian Fame Guy Lafleur , and the son , Gilbert celebrating , and the son , Prud Dionne , Steve Shutt and Brad Park .
the lightkeepers the goals Richard S?vigny and Gaston Gingras compl?taient the picture , the forgotten my husband , Ted Mahovlich .
in summary , let the Guy Lafleur the summer remarkable the Canadian the Prime match , obtenant the turn of the chapeau .
the duo father - son of Frank and Ted Mahovlich the dismantling a profit , minutes before the end of the second part , and Frank the summer 264 ballet the the match !
the the Hon. the
hear !
the senator Mahovlich :
the undefeated will Finance in my office .
i do I do the Canadian less fortunate .
the entra?neurs were Yvan Cournoyer and Bobby Hull , all of the the Fame the Canadian Fame .
the Canadian the fourth the , we do take it off the the accident and all the were imbued the role of match the their lives .
the result , 5 , given to us , we , we to the son , the Vigneault - Andr celebrating , Mary Lafleur and sailors Mahovlich , the people Women two aims .
the Russes were also represented by the great handed the this series of hockey the 1972 :
this team has the fact that ?
the no doubt , environmentally - I , particularly if the " feel the honourable you about the Canadian the Canadian to the volume and the perspective with some tons allowing the effects of light of residence the contours .
some senators maintaining the I speak more of a lot of Monet or the C?zanne .
this is the not true .
this team , in the memory of the Russes a model of behaviour , the spirit of Team , the determination and the spirit sportsman .
i was proud of the part of the that the
the Russes not knew that the to us to speak .
if Marie did visit the Grand theatre Bolcho? , the museum Pouchkine or the publisher of m?tro , we had Olag and Stash , the workings of the body , the country clause .
the trip incluait a match the St. - P?tersbourg and a visit to the museum the the Hermitage , the palais the winter the the tsars .
we have travelled the Canadian night by the and , the country took , we have visited the new patinoire the hockey the accueillera the championnats the the world junior the April 2000 .
the Canada will be represented .
the minister we , the visit the patinoire and we , explained that the rock was completed the 80 per , the it would prepared to the year 2000 , the it was a consistent the 12 per places guarding and that it top 75 million . $ .
when I , I asked the the just the money , he I was " the Canadian bank and the biggest investors .
this , we , particularly coalesces . " the long - the trip , the are the changes to the are manufactured .
we have visited the Kremlin , the Eltsine just the meeting Leonid Kuchma , the Canadian the Ukraine .
the Hon. the Speaker :
i am sorry , Senator Mahovlich , but your time , honourable is elapsed .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
a extension , the the honourable senators !
the the Hon. the
you , there another
the Hon. the Speaker :
souhaitez - you to the leave of up ?
the senator Mahovlich :
yes , Your Honour .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is the the Canadian agreed , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Hon. the Speaker :
keep , I would the meantime .
the senator Mahovlich :
the Kremlin the summer has the nine the the cost of 350 million . $ American and the motion of Building the Canadian Federation the be proud .
i have been the Washington , in France , the Beijing and the Australia .
no . the big the the work , the summer pre - and condemned merged the the Kremlin the the , the one time , the tsars and the tsarines r?gnaient .
if a senator has the opportunity to the matter . - there , the visit the the Kremlin the right .
Mr. . Pavel Boredin , the third in the deployment , the in the kindly the us explain the detail . the the the emergency dance and their duties the the system Communist and the the system of the tsars .
the place was the great that the one of sentiment that the the inevitable our buildings the the Parliament in a room , and the , the three emergency the this size .
this is really intimidant when the chairman Eltsine the one meeting in a the the emergency and that the not apply to a board and two chaises and that the extreme all the other struggles .
the pillars are made to malachite and the lapis - lazuli and the walls are orn?s the paintings as the the heroes historic russes .
he is the one thing in Russia , remains Increase , the motion of court of the one toast and the make the the speech .
we have had obligations of water our verres the extent to pimps , both or three vodkas to the " and Allison .
the time , the the trip the summer a visit to the cimeti?res with the ?pouses and the son of the entra?neurs and the the protocol the hockey .
the Russes the inoculation regularly the the cemetery to honour to other handed , by the Universe Kharlamov , the motion death in 1981 .
the pierres tombales are the the Depression deart.
the example , he is the one buste the Tarasov - the above the one Room of granit the was divided the two , the the b?tons the hockey , railway the the finest community of the capstone .
i was the Right and I have made as the galleries that I have touched the Institut .
many of Russes we have heard the people entra?neurs and the people handed .
in the the captain of the team , I have heard the Tarasov and the country meeting of the beginning of the years 60 , and that the my experience in the the witness the the one of the celebrities aims of Kharlamov .
the trip to the speech by a bit the the City Savoy with the the divertissements and the the danses russes .
the two teams were revitalizing , contrary to 1972 , the the Russes not to the not made , and defeat .
the Ambassador of the Canada , Rod Irwin , and the wife , the chamber .
the fum?e the cigare the eventual by the coverage and we are so parties in the time that Julie .
we we do our bagages to our flight the back the next morning .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the the Hon. the
the appointment of the Vice - Governor Revised Hole
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , I am outset that the other honourable senators , the Alberta , wishing to me to bring the attention of the Senate on the change spoken to the position of Flying - Governor in our province of origin .
laws . the wife , business , a auteure , a diffuseure , a successful in the area of the education , the end of a period of 30 years various positions , the public . the advice of the districts school of St. - LaChance and the the session .
it has generously and advisory address the the activities to the public . the community and the Canadian city of Edmonton , the it is very admir?e to his skills and the excellent a the the humour .
the the people from the world . America , the North looking the opinion of individuals and , the the years of the five years in the it has made the honourable the somewhat bracket groups and business .
he is the one year and shocking , it has received the Order of the Canada and the summer the Chancellor of the University of the Alberta .
the , it is showing Stan. the Canadian interest of the population of the new responsibilities the the the it provides to the focus on the importance of the education and the the learning to the citizens of all the ages .
i would wish to the success and I , although the entire the extent of my means .
honourable senators , individuals completing the one wonderful gentleman , Olson Olson , a farmer the qualifying Hat the , for the Canadian four decades , the work , and the the public .
he has been elected to the House of the House of 15 years and Senator the gravity to the Hon. Belgian the the position of Flying - Governor in 1996 .
the " the long - his career , Olson the summer recognized as a the the d?batteurs and experts the Canadian Rules and the qualified the Hon. the .
he I was certainly far from the all the years , we have been rejected the Canadian Hill the the Parliament .
the TSB in the career of Olson Olson , the motion that he has always expressed with passion and honesty the concerns of the province and , in particular , the Canadian community crop .
but above - deserved the first . , he is the council of interest patriotism indicated , the respect to the country and the Canadian , the the unity , feeling the the the adventure also in the most recent the the the the end .
i know that all the honourable senators , joindront the I , wish to welcome to approve and collaboration Olson Olson .
that God Greg b?nisse , Olson .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the Honourable Nicholas W . Taylor :
honourable senators , he would bring impossible to do better , the senator Fairbairn , but I will be the same add , wish .
i wish to Olson Olson a retirement , the health .
my relationship with Olson predates the Canadian many years .
Olson the motion . dedicated to the political .
he has always been a great orator very strong in sense .
i am recall the Canadian campaign that he has waged , the Canadian the Liberal the the Cr?dit social the the Canada , arpentant the south of the Alberta , motocyclette .
the very long after the the acc?dait the the position of Minister of the public . the cabinet Liberal and the baladait the limousine .
this is to you say that the people of the south of the Alberta will always very quickly , the .
i do that the senator Ghitter is the agreement with me .
i know individuals Hole been more than that it is like to the memory .
the the time , as the most of the Liberal , I have had leave Calgary to me to elect .
today , the time we employons the " to the - free to the the motion to designate a Liberal , Calgary .
after the issue , for the many years in the area of the education , I thought to balance a profit .
a the my friends Rouyn the the protocol the football the the graduates of the spillover the Alberta to the make role in Oklahoma .
i the I kidnappers the the Hole , the the two sons were the base gaillards .
the family full is partisan , but Revised I was supported the Canadian and under the jurisdictional that , the the the son have been in the Canadian to their own decisions , in the the parents , it and the husband souhaitaient that these young people play the the football the the Canada and not the .
i the attention to show that individuals was prepared to matriarche the the clan .
withdrawal and the boys the many contributed to the business rock .
laws the interest of first and the first , the education but it is the well . " as auteure .
we reach many of the the opportunity to the meeting in the years , in the , it is the Canadian , young and dynamic and it is miss not the sillonner the country . v. .
it will a wonderful Lieutenant - Governor .
the appointment of Lynda Haverstock the the position of Flying - Governor
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I do know that the new Lieutenant - Governor of the Alberta , but I wish to the wish to better . the opportunity .
however , I know Lynda Haverstock , the just the be appointed to Saskatchewan .
Lynda Haverstock will certainly amend the curriculum vitae kind of the Vice - Governor .
the the age of tonnes years , it was already mother vogue and the centrist the school , but it is now become Dr. the psychologie .
it has spent many of the years , working with the families agricultural , Asian , either the the advice to all kinds of recurring .
this is the my opinion , above important to the the it winds the the new part of Flying - Governor of the province of the Saskatchewan .
Lynda the motion 1873 active the political , it is the years .
it was leader of the Liberal Party of the Saskatchewan , the close to the same time when I occupais the position to the Manitoba .
as the Liberal . was not very fortunate in the two provinces , the time , that , he we , often come to compatir the .
i believe that the Prime Minister has made a good advice .
when the two women will have shelters , he is a more of women that the men who occuperont the position of Flying - Governor in the country .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the senator Carstairs :
he has also the one good advice as Dr. Haverstock the many fought , as well , the people in Saskatchewan , and it does the the problems facing the people of the Saskatchewan are faced the the time at the
the Honourable David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , the motion of a the the few times when I have a thing . nomination the " to the Canadian and Liberal .
as you the you , the Prime Minister has appointed her Lynda Haverstock the the position of Flying - Governor of the Saskatchewan . She from the headwind a place . Liberal , Jack Wiebe .
Lynda the motion battue the so that the Canadian the Liberal Party of the Saskatchewan , but I have a the time to Lynda Haverstock .
it is to me a friend .
the husband and I alter the the golf , often that we , we .
this is a woman the principles .
it carries the part of a great dignity .
the case we enjoy the the appointments political sanctions .
the week , the I have taquin? Lynda the the Pearson to the Canadian , 1966 .
i have travelled with the husband the Toronto , Saskatoon and the " the said that the appointment was the rape .
i had thought that it would become pr?sentatrice the one Minutes - Debate telephone .
as you the you , it has been the the problems with the new leader of the Liberal Party , Skookum Melenchuk - the the problems rather serious .
i have said , the husband that it would the venger because the the motion now member of the caucus of the NDP and that , when it magazine a the the bills of the the request the signing , it would the look at the poubelle .
Lynda attempted that the
after the words kind of the senator Carstairs , the place . L Haverstock , I wish I join the the senator for whom this last .
i know that it repr?sentera , the province .
the appointment . the one of the few that the remarks the Prime Minister and that I agree fully .
visitors in Gallery
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I wish wish to welcome to both the our former colleagues who is contemplated in the gallery this afternoon , afternoon , the knowledge of the Lorne Bonnell and the Honourable Eugene Whelan .
the the Hon. the
hear !
business routine
the application tabled under the Canadian Act , the Transportation the the Canada During some carriers air enhancing the salaries - Introduction of the third report of the committee , the Transportation and the the communication
the Honourable Lise Bacon , Chair of the committee on the Canadian and Communications and the the communication , the the report following :
the 1998 at December 1998
the Committee on the Canadian and Communications and the the communication the the honour to present its
third REPORT
your Committee , the the summer authorized by the Senate le14 October 1998 , to the to the make the , pursuant to the rule 47 ( 5 ) the Canadian Act , the Transportation the the Canada , the application tabled the this chamber , at September 1998 , nowhere some carriers air enhancing and some people to negotiate and the agreements , with Earl , the respectfully that the Committee be authorized to withhold the services of lawyers , the councillors technical and the first , staff necessary to the
the budget was introduced to the Committee on the Canadian Economy Economy , the the Economy , the the board of jeudi9 December 1998 . In the second report of Committee of the Economy Economy , the Canadian recommendation that 19 900 $ the lib?r?s to this study .
this report was passed by the Senate . Tuesday at December 1998 .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
French BACON
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Bacon , the study of the report is placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
energy , Environment and gas natural
introduction of the second report of the committee
the Honourable Mira Spivak , Chair of the committee on the Canadian the energy , the the Environment and the the resources natural , the the report following :
the 1998 at December 1998
the Committee on the Canadian the energy , the the Environment and the the resources natural the the honour to present its
REPORT REPORT
your Committee , though the the Senate . mercredi1er December 1998 , to the issues , could remote occasionally the Procedural the the energy , the the Environment and the the resources natural , the respectfully that the Committee be authorized to withhold the services of lawyers , the councillors technical and the first , staff necessary to the and the the place to adjourn the Canada and the the foreign to the purpose of the inquiry .
the budget was introduced to the Committee on the Canadian Economy Economy , the the Economy , the the board of jeudi9 December 1998 . In the second report , the Committee of the Economy Economy , noted that he welcomes the one of the Canadian the budget of the committee , the Senate and the Canadian recommendation that 6 / 12 , the fund guaranteed the lib?r?s the chamber , 10 February 2000 .
this report was passed by the Senate . Tuesday at December 1998 .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
MIRA SPIVAK
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Spivak , the study of the report is placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
the recommendations of the board Royal the the Aboriginal Peoples respecting the Canadian public policy aboriginal
introduction of the report of the committee , the Aboriginal Peoples
the Honourable Charlie Watt , the Canadian the committee on the Canadian and aboriginal Peoples , the the report following :
the 1998 at December 1998
the Committee on the Canadian and aboriginal Peoples . the honour to present its
REPORT REPORT
your Committee , the the summer authorized by the Senate . Wednesday 24 November 99 , the effect of the and the present a report on the recommendations of the board Royal the the Aboriginal Peoples respecting the Canadian public policy aboriginal , the respectfully that the committee be authorized to withhold the services of lawyers , the councillors technical and the first , staff necessary to the the purpose of the inquiry .
the budget was introduced to the Committee on the Canadian Economy Economy , the the Economy , the the board of jeudi9 December 1998 . In the second report , the Committee of the Economy Economy , the Canadian recommendation that at 750 $ that lib?r?s to the study .
this report was passed by the Senate . Tuesday at December 1998 .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
chairman chairman
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Watt , the study of the report is placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
the adjournment
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , and notwithstanding the article 58 ( 1 ) ( Deputy of the Rules , I move :
that the 15 at 1:30 today , the so , the not the not temin? the Senate , the Speaker interrompe the deliberations to adjourn the Senate ;
that , if a vote is plans to 17 at 1:30 today , the the Speaker interrompe the deliberations to 15 at 1:30 to suspend the Chair from the 17 at 1:30 to the implementation of the Hon. the the vote plans ; and
that all the point sub the the Order of the Order and the the Order of the Notice , the not have not been active , remain in their agenda present .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
the group Inter Canada - Japan
tabling of the report of the delegation Canadian , the tenth meeting bilateral Annual with the group of friendship Canada - Japan
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I have the honour to table the report of the delegation Canadian , the tenth meeting bilateral Annual of the group Inter Canada - Japan and the group of friendship Canada - Japan , the the motion held in Tokyo and the Nagasaki , the in the Island of Shikoku , the the Japan , the the 6 , the 13 November 99 .
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
tabling of the report of the delegation Canadian , the meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary the the Organization for the safety and the cooperation in Europe , held in the 17 , the 19 November 99
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I have the honour to table , in the two languages official , the report of the delegation Canadian of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe ( OSCE ) the Canadian meeting of the board expanded the the Assembly Parliamentary the the Organization for the safety and the cooperation in Europe and the the Summit of the OSCE the the are held in Istanbul , in Transferred , the the 17 , the 19 November 99 .
the Association legislation Canada - China
tabling of the report of the delegation Canadian , the second meeting Annual , held in the 25 , the 31 October
the Honourable Jack Austin :
honourable senators , I have the honour to table , in the two languages official , the third report of the Association legislation Canada - China the Canadian second meeting bilateral the the motion held in Ottawa , Toronto , Winnipeg and Victoria , the the Canada , the the 25 billion October 1998 .
the Senate
the licensing of a refugee bilingual the Canadian city of Ottawa - Notice of Motion
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the 16 d , I move that the city of Ottawa , much of the Canada , should be putting bilingual .
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
he we in the atrocities the substance .
it is my attach however , sufficient .
we have the the the tabled the motion .
the senator Gauthier :
honourable senators , I am prepared to table of Motion in the .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I am the opinion that he is the only a problem of communication .
as the the record , the Honourable Senator not stand not very well , the so that he could be a one problem .
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
why not peers - we not the back to the opinion of Motion ?
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
i accept that we return to the opinion of Motion to the day , the when the senator Gauthier will table the opinion of Motion to the rules .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is the the Canadian agreed , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Honourable Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , the the time when the senator Hays asked the leave of return to the to the the senator Gauthier , the opinion of Motion , the last was already prepared to the make .
the senator Hays :
the agreement .
the senator Gauthier :
honourable senators , the the , the confusion , the motion ? - be the the , the case of my surdit? , I must read the my computer portable the I , the the honourable senators from the " .
however , I have the one would and I will the back to the page to the the Canadian the " the Transportation .
the Hon. the Speaker :
he not be not necessary to get more later , the opinion of Motion , the agreement ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Finance
the limits of the mandate of the members of the Board of investment the the Pension the pension of the Canada
the Honourable David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government and the Act , sensible the pension of the Canada and the recommendations of the committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade .
the the beginning of 1988 , the committee , the Banking , began a study exhaustive the the Board of investment the the Pension the pension of the Canada .
i have been happy to see that the government , and the provinces approuvaient the the least a the our recommendations , the elimination the limit the number of re that could fulfil a founder .
in his answer to September 1998 , the report of our committee , the Minister has said that the tax . the limit thoroughly the the changes legislation .
if the honourable senators , sponsored the debate the " the time , he was incredibly none that the bill to the Act , want to addressing the the Pension the pension of the Canada , passed .
the Minister said that the changes . could not be made for the the then change the bill .
now that the Minister of the Finance has answered the this part of the bill to the and that he has said that the government fixerait a period limited to the mandate of the directors , we do let no reference to the bill to the in the announcement of the week , the
the officials that we have contact?s not , the the armed the no plan to the present a bill to the certified the government announced the week , the
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I do I have the no legislation . the , the report by the Minister of the Finance to the date .
he is the the the choisisse the the make the late , but I do I have the other bill to the in the time .
as the Canadian substance of the border carried the 1998 , I , do .
i can do take the information the question to the Minister and back with a response to time wanted .
the senator Tkachuk :
the Leader of the the the CCN to provide a response written expliquant why he not there has not the bill to the and why the Minister of the Finance has said , in September 1998 , the the in Technicolor a ?
this is important because the us we believed the Minister , and the motion ? of the members of the committee . put the idea of annexer a letter to the bill to the private the feasibility the amendment directly to the committee .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I will try to examine the the senator , the government has the intent of the one bill to the .
the Transportation
the restructuring of the industry . the Transportation air - Conformity the Canadian the monopoly the response Canada
the Honourable Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , I have a question to question to the Leader of the government to the Senate to the subject of the transportation .
the honourable know that the committee on the the Transportation the fact , good analysis of the decision of the Minister of the Transport and categorical the application of the article 47 of the Act , the Competition , the the the fishing the Canadian society Onex the introduction a significant restructuring of the area of the Transportation air .
the committee has found that no reason . sort the the Minister suspende the application of this provision .
i am asking , for at the so , the Canadian the government has a explanation .
this are all of the issues important .
the week , the I have asked the the issues . the Minister of the subject of the increase the the rates of December Canada , and the us that the the response Canada trafique the point of the program for one travellers .
the Leader of the the us to the assurance that the Canadian . will not broy?s by the monopoly the response Canada ?
the intermediaries the rights of the consumers in this restructuring ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , in the the concerns of protection of the consumer Canadian , if a single transporteur dominait the market , we appliquerions the principles that the Minister has set and that I have crimes here , I again .
in the circumstances current , the transporteur overlooking will the follow the Canadian and rules clear .
the senator Oliver :
if the Parliament , until the in February , the will the deal of the matter if the rates continue to increase and if the operation to amend the system of the ?
the will protect the consumers the this regard ?
the senator Boudreau :
the organizations regulatory the place will continue to the population of their mandate .
the most , the commitment to the Minister of the Transport , the release the response Canada in the words , the exceptions .
i have resulted trust that the consumers will protected .
the Honourable Consiglio Di Nino :
i am asking if the Minister could we say that he is the Canadian the new to the subject of the statement of the Minister that the the motor foreign monopolies given to reviewing the the Canada , particularly in the area of the cabotage .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I do I do the state of the subject to the time .
i am eagerly the the the the Minister of the little a deep the government .
i am sure that they will ensure the the principles which have been set the number again , the name of the government .
these principles garantissent that the consumers are protected .
the senator Di Nino :
the Minister could the the information to us a response to the question of the cabotage the chamber , the the the Senate reprenne the Senate . year next ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I will be the the concerns of the senator and I bring his request of information .
he will the the Minister of directors , he is subject separately and the public . the part of the government or the the means move a whole of the as a . .
the Defence down
the replacement of the helicopters Sea King
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , the the the Somalia journalists in the newspapers these games months and the Canadian news of the Presse Canadian of today , the reason , there would have the the least 10 ou12 incidents the Canadian and winding , the the papers plates , the the papers and rotor and the other papers would tomb?es the the helicopters Sea King , the government think it to the staff , the funeral in the helicopters ?
i am asking that the Canadian public . Halifax - Western - the the Leader of the government to the Senate might be the be the present in the the next election federal - that when the Sea King survolent their homes .
in spite of the notes the information of the Minister of the National , the " that he will eight years , individuals the program of Alternative the the helicopters submarines , the Minister , the same states that he can make the well , such program , five years .
i accept that matter , but some terms regarding the beginning and I wish to the comments of the Minister .
i have the many of research on the question and I have heard the many of people who know exactly what is the situation .
if the government is before the end of the months , the " said that he would be the complete the 2005 .
the government ferra the the the the need to the end of the year ?
the - the other , the necessary to the end of December of this year ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I have read the article in the newspaper and I had set the Canadian . would question .
i have read carefully this section and I , I made copy with me .
the senator has the " the reason , that the one series of Somalia . Six in the past and that we in mouth certainly , I .
however , this series of Somalia confirm that these helicopters are old and ach?vent their lives to the
i have noted that Colin Curleigh , a Couture General to the retirement and a man . did in the cercles military the Halifax , was quoted in this section .
Mr. . Curleigh the Fifth that , the Hon. the , he would be the have replaced the Sea King in 2005 .
he not the not said that he would be the credits be d?gag?s before Christmas , the the least not in this section .
however , he has stated that the replacement would be considered in 2005 .
i have been happy to hear a layman the the issues military as the Vice General Curleigh confirm the information that I have obtenue the other sources and the reason the reliability of the aircraft the concern , by No the Canadian Transportation of the people .
he is that , in the justice to the senator , the the Vice - General has said that the bill be a slaughter the well , 2005 , but that he would the that a huge will policy .
i suppose that he was probably the the armed the the fact that the Minister of the National Defence , the Canadian this issue of the priority .
i have a hope that he is a that the the kind of commitment needed to do advance the program .
the senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , he is the one another condition , will the fine with the plan of the in the .
i respect looking the Vice - General Curleigh that I know , as the Minister of the question , since 25 or 30 years .
i am in the parages been mothballed .
i have known the Vice - General Curleigh when he was officer subalterne .
the question of the political partisanship . was ready .
if we want begin the process , we must be a downsizing to the have a choice .
we , we prepared to do the sacrifice the the benefits sectors regional the the be necessary to achieve this objective ?
this is a question extremely important .
when we talking the safety , we talking the reliability .
a accessoire the Sudan is piece of a Sea King in full flight , the Shearwater .
a panneau the extreme is piece of a replacement Sea King the 29 August , and the " no , in the doctor that the the years of a inspection , the atterrissage .
a place Sea King the lost a panneau different the the years of a fraction of Thunder Bay and Kenora .
a balise the search the motion d?tach?e by inadvertent the one modulateur , the 24 September , the the years of a fraction - the above the Canadian of policing the the growers .
he is a a war with the Americans , if we do we not to the
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the point that the senator raises the the tip turn , the complexity of the process .
this is still , inadequate , a series of offending .
it is it exchanging the memories to have the possibility of smokers to the trade , the Canada ?
this are there , the issues concerning the Minister of the National Defence must balance the Canadian each acquisition of equipment military .
i do I do the federal massive to prosper the various factors to the Canadian and evidence that I reflected , but I am sure that the Minister made to such decisions couramment to the important what Purchase .
he the smaller certainly in the case of a lease , a that the replacement of the Sea King .
the senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , no . will the prior to the Canadian the present year , the the means that , in five years , we do we not yet the equipment , extinction necessary .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I humbly the senator , not . from a moment conclusion .
i still optimism .
i am I talked with the Minister of the National Defence .
he I was the government . the priorities the , I , will , the transformeront the action .
the health
the increase the the Estimates , Research the the Breast the the public
the Honourable Marjory LeBreton :
honourable senators , since we talking the political partisanship , the week , the " the same read the Globe Ottawa Citizen that a proposal introduced to the government department that he increase in 235 million . $ the Estimates aside the Canadian research and the the treatment of the Breast the the public . was defeated , the so each know that is the Canadian tax the most dynamic the Breast the Canadian women .
the same , in the book Red the 1997 , he is written clear that the Breast the the public . the Canadian and chief problems in the Canadian health .
the Leader of the government to the Senate may , he we say , the government will take the heart this problem illness and that the the subject ?
the government has spent a billion . $ to deal of NAV the the Pearson Pearson and 764 million . $ to deal of Contracts , the cancellation of the requirement of the helicopters EH - 101 the , the six years .
the government . the Estimates , how the government can the the horrendous the refusal of a $ the 235 million . $ the five years , to the women demonstrate the Breast the the public ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the government makes very the the serious the efforts efforts to fight this disease and moral the people who , abandoned .
i do I do indeed , the armed the Canadian the " which the senator has made reference .
in the , I am a little confus as the Canadian psyche exactly the Canadian the , the knowledge , he is a the Canadian benefit direct the services medical funded by the government , or the the , the one some participation of the government . the departments provincial and the health .
unfortunately , I do I do . Chairman the I and I am so kick the giving a response full the the senator .
the senator LeBreton :
he has been many the Canadian this matter in the media .
i have seen any other , the subject in The Ottawa Citizen .
a friend to me , the said that he was read a section of this matter in the Sun the Vancouver .
the government has refused to the revers the Canadian labour a suggestion from the one of the members of the home caucus , the the very the be doctor and the prairies certainly the state of this disease .
yet , the government . the motion . g?n? to defend 1,764 billion . $ to cancel the the aviation .
how the government can the the horrendous that the the women who suffer the the Breast the the public and the people families ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am a little disadvantaged here because the I do know that the details of the proposal .
the employee - the Canadian business of research ?
the employee - the Canadian the benefit direct the services medical ?
the senator LeBreton :
he is a the Senate . R .
the senator Boudreau :
the the the employee of the benefit direct the services medical , in the the former Minister provincial and the health , I do know that the allocation that the function .
the the the employee of the Canadian research , I understand .
i draw the " the senator , new program majeur the research , health , the summer announced and the motion presumably by the government .
the proposal the the Instituts Canadian of research , health a a bill . previous in our country . the the concerns of research , health .
the the feeling that the Breast the the public will nervousness be included in this initiative major .
the Council of the Treasury
the increase the Canadian Prestation national to children , " devancement the Canadian date
the Honourable Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators , we apprenions in the speech , the Throne that the Prestation national to children would increase in the Canadian 2002 .
the Canadian and information , the fact , the Canadian a talent and the people were passed to the U.S. Financial the , the few weeks , this bill cost about reintegrating million . $ the first year and , a time application in the whole , 425 million . $ each year by the following .
the Prestation national to children . holding the the families poor the the Canada .
it . provides the assistance financial the provinces have desperately need to the desirability of the food , the the height and a room .
the in lieu the Canadian and expense allowance and the the factors of prudence , the government . never to put a surplus of 5,5 billion . $ the year next .
the government has the Canadian good reasons of the not increase the the year next , benefit holding the the families poor the the Canada , the biological , the Canadian difference in their cheque the basis of July 2000 ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I thank the Honourable Senator to his question and the Hon. support the the program .
the government enregistrera a surplus and we are in r?jouissons all .
the credit , up essentially the the Minister of the Finance .
however , the way , the surplus will redistribu? will corrective the basis of the various needs , the will , I trust , all very urgents and legitimate .
i do know that if the suggestion of the Honourable Senator might be taken in suggesting , but I copy of the suggestion to the people positions .
the senator Cohen :
honourable senators , the government has succeeded to put a surplus to the background of the poor .
the only deemed the Canadian Prestation national to children has the the fact that a wide agreement with the provinces and enables the NDP the money , tuition to the welfare social .
the government can the the delay the Friends of the program and ensure that the the the entire the increase meeting that flow of only to the workers poor , but also to all the families , low income ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I must come to the suggestion , based the reason the surplus the summer realized the the background of the poor .
this surplus the main , the by the vigour the the economy .
our happened national product does a growing , much .
it is the not a wonderful , but the result of political strong , sens?es and mod?r?es .
the growth economic is extremely strong .
in the evidence of biochemistry the the plan budget , we have succeeded to the coming to the point where the parliamentary can appear the the priorities concerning the wish to the " is surplus .
this is a situation wonderful .
in the the concerns of details of the question , I do repeat not my answer original if the not . the " that the suggestions the the Honourable Senator will delivered to the Minister of the .
the cabinet the the Prime Minister
the Vice - Governor of the Nova Scotia Nova Scotia Nomination the Hon. XII. - Possibility of a choice , partisan
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , the early today , in the part of the statements of senators , we have had a " the the praise and the the comments to the subject of the new Lieutenant - Governor of the Saskatchewan . It I really the " to the us can we expect to the the the Vice - Governor present the Canadian Nova Scotia Nova , the so , the end of the mandate , the replaced .
the Minister can the the us reporting to the displaced to the us can prepare the statements the the imposeront the the opportunity to the replacement ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I am soulag? .
during a moment , I have thought that the Honourable Senator possession his promotion the the position .
the beginning would be the loss for our institution .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
there has the Canadian and short of the Senate ?
the senator Boudreau :
in the plain , I know , the fair the the be appointed to replace the dean .
i do I do in the Canadian and discussions , the subject .
human not me , the the should be appointed to the position .
the , the the the human not me , no , the I do then , disciplinary that the appointment . is not imminente .
the senator Comeau :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate . mentioned that I could be run .
this could be a good idea .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the senator Comeau :
the government . the new direction that the Prime Minister of the Nova Scotia Nova , the Peru Hamm , the decision to try to reduce the number of appointments et the Nova Scotia Nova , the Minister will be the or promettra the the the Prime Minister federal ask the the Prime Minister and the the House provincial and to the this appointment of a the the first appointments , et the the Canada ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , if the " investigate the " the proposal of the senator , I am asking if the would be the one of the first appointments , et made to the Canada , a first minister , all affiliations political confondues .
i do appreciate that commemorative the the ferries the the meaning of the question .
we can be sought the the Prime Minister choisira , for the the new Lieutenant - Governor of the Nova Scotia Nova , a person of a great Polish and the one of integrity .
i am sure that is the that the first criteria which the guideront .
i am sure , the the overlapping the Canadian and consultations , but I do ?chafauderai not the ferries the the adequacy official of these consultations .
i would extremely surprised to the not in discutait not with various the , the , by the , the Prime Minister of the province .
we can be sought the " choisira a Canadian , the - be the one Scotians - Scotians , the the most senators ,
on business orders
the Senate . the Senate
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I ask that the second point of the Order of the Order , the knowledge of the Canadian the bill to the C - 21 , the the Prime the be implemented in discussion .
bill to the Canadian credit No. 3 to 99 - 2000
second reading
the honourable senators , the bill to the C - 21 , as much of the name of the Canadian credit No. 3 to 99 - 2000 , the Canadian and financial the one $ 100 of 3,86 billion . $ , pursuant to the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A ) 99 - 2000 .
the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A ) . the Prime the the fiscal the closing the 31 March 2000 and the act to the Estimates , spending made in the budget of the 16 February 1998 .
the honourable senators , remember that the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A ) , 1999 - 2000 , the summer the " the Senate . 16 November 99 . - 17 November , the Senate . the Aboriginal the the committee on the Canadian and money Finance .
our committee . is unfair the lines and at November .
the 2,500 December , the committee has included the report on the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A ) in the second report of the committee , the Finance Finance .
the honourable the voters that , when the report . was passed the 8 December , the Canadian week , the I have mentioned that is budget , the the subject of a review detailed and that , the lines November , our committee was heard the evidence of the officials of the Year of the Council of the Treasury , Richard Neville and Andrew Lieff .
the committee has found their evidence . useful and informatifs , as the usual .
i am touch now on some of the major items the not had not been d?finis or concessions accompany the the years of the study of the Estimates Main the the Estimates , 1999 - 2000 , and the need now be approved by the Parliament , the words of the bill to the C - 21 .
these funds will the the departments and the the agencies of Recombinant the degree of Alternative the the year 2000 . their systems and the government . the Canadian soil international , the coordination core and the planning the the government . emergency .
a place the important component a statute the 485,7 million . $ the 65 departments and agencies in order to a clause of Reference to do with the Canadian and expense of operating the first category for 1998 - 99 .
this provision of Reference characterize the approach to the government , to the deficit the Estimates , the Canadian year and the latest the management of the encaisse the the Economy , functioning .
this provision the " and stewards of opposing the prior , the one year , the the following , a $ 250 represent the " cent per - the budget of operating the the fiscal previous .
the budget of operating includes the salaries , the Estimates , functioning and the Estimates , capital high .
a place the important . the statute the 482,5 million . $ the six departments and agencies to the coordinator the activities of the Canada . the the the policy , the conflict the the Kosovo .
the Canada participates to the efforts of the community international been the beginning of the crisis , in February 1998 . Depuis that the situation . degenerated quickly , March 1998 , the Canada objective of the efforts diplomatic and military , and the meantime active in the assistance humanitarian the the refugee .
some 199,4 million . $ are keynotes the the Year of the Council of the Treasury , the right debating the the fund to the departments and the the agencies to cover the effects of the conventions collective agreements , the Order , and that the effect of the rate .
the negotiating collective the monarchy the the beginning of 1997 .
these funds future of cost diff?rentiels r?troactifs and standing relating to the salaries for 1999 - 2000 .
he is the 149,5 million . $ to the departments of the National Defence and the the Subcommittee Veterans , in response to the recommendation of the committee Standing the Canadian Defence down and the the former Veterans the Canadian House of the House , the one consideration of the affectant the life and the families of the members of the Canadian Forces .
this strategy purchase of consistently , the Canadian and internship the summer and the the Pages to the young the the First Nations and the young Inuit , and it is ineffective the the trade and the development international , the Science and the technology , and the other programs related to the young .
a significant the 112,2 million does the four departments and agencies to the government . restructuring and the Fur the the fishery Canadian to the harshness the impact on the communities and the people of the West is the the Elimination of the TAGS the the fish the TAGS the the Atlantic .
the the government . restructuring and the Fur are also down in the case of the fishery , the salmon on the West Coast .
honourable senators , I , just now , the major items the genealogists only to the departments or the the organizations .
a significant the 108 million . $ is allocated to the Department of the Human the the resources human to the fund . the Canada for the creation of jobs , the the amendments to release that the way of the Canadian . deal to the problems facing are faced the Canadian in the regions where the rate of unemployment is high .
this elite the emploiera , in close collaboration with the other levels of the , the area private , the organizations of development regional and the organizations community , the liberalization the Employment .
a $ the 84,1 million . $ is assigned to the Department of the Foreign Affairs and the the International Covenant to redistribute of some provinces , the Canadian and revenues from the the rights paid by the pundits the lumber the implementation .
the Department of the Heritage Canada " 70 million . $ to improve the program of support the the Official Languages , legal the assistance direct leave to the development of the communities minority and the finan?ant the agreements federal - provincial , basically in the area of the post - the language of the minority and the Canadian language second .
honourable senators , the only , but budget is the credit to 50 million . $ grappling the Canadian National Defence in the purpose of increased provisoirement the displaced in the fact , the Canadian working for the the Department that cost of manning Canadian , the " the foreign to the case where the spark the the year 2000 poserait the the difficulties of feature .
i will the present you information some information on the changes to the Estimates , the Estimates legislation .
the major items devise a the subject of medical the the Estimates expenditures are the following .
the Department of the Agriculture and the the Agroalimentaire receives a Consideration of 179,5 million . $ to pay the producers in order to the different brought the Canadian Act , the protection of the income crop .
these programs . the subject the Canadian ensure the income agricultural to help the producers to express their income and the managing their herds .
many of these programs . administered by the provinces or by the the organizations or boards provincial .
a Consideration of 182,3 million . $ the summer awarded the the Department of the Finance to the CHST the the cash the equalization payments to the provinces .
this increase reflects the changes op?r?s in the Estimates , which are based these payments , including the people and the revenues tax . the province given the
the cash billion . $ 121.8 array in the Estimates Main the the Estimates , the Department of the Finance to the floor to the provinces , the CHST the the CHST Canadian , the Canadian health and the program social and the transfers to 108,5 million . $ .
he is a the cover the increase in value of the transfer , some of Tax , due to the the revenues . important from the the tax on the income of the particular and the the companies .
the CHST the Canadian to improvements the provinces in the areas of the health , the the post post , the the assistance social and the the services social .
he is the one new credit to 79 million . $ to the Department of the Finance , for the the cash the replacement the the CHST the the program standing , the case of the recouvrements the high that governs in the Estimates Main .
the recouvrements the high reflect the increase the the income , and the some other payments to taxes .
honourable senators , these positions that I just the poll future . increase overall the 174,3 million . $ , which , a time shirked the reduction of visible million . $ flair of the other departments and agencies mentioned in the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A ) 99 - 2000 , the simplest the one increase net of 171,1 million . $ .
honourable senators , I thank the new chair of our committee , the senator Murray Murray , the the Premiers , the Hon. resume the the work and the Hon. look caring .
i thank the one veteran who has gained the the service to the committee , the senator Doody , the the previous served the position prestigious the chairman of the committee .
it is , honourable senators , and to providence all the members of the committee for their good work , I wish to prier all the honourable senators , supporting the licensing of supply the Queen Majesty and the the government . Her Majesty the permission the bill to the C - 21 to the the government . the Canada can vaquer the the business .
the Honourable Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I thank the senator Cools the the words enrich .
i would pay the earning , but not only to the form , I , thank do the this transaction full and detailed the the bill to the Canadian ambassador .
it has contributed facility my work .
honourable senators , let - I , why the ones context of the University of the .
the course , in order to the Constitution , we have the right to amend the or even the Lower , the bill to the the us are before .
however , the Senate . recognized that the licensing of supply , the tax . taxes and the government financial the General of the Canadian and prerogatives the most jalousement gard?es the Canadian House of the House .
the Senate ?volutif the the following the war , came to the Canadian government has responsibilities to the Canadian House equal the the Parliament , in products the prerogatives of the House of the House of these areas .
the result , we throw before the the budget , the committee on the Canadian and money Finance .
the committee , the Finance Finance . telling not necessarily all the program .
he attempts the study of spending the the board public federal in a perspective of political administrative , the Canadian the the the mandate . " no be restricted .
the mandate is being General for the study of the credits and the the Estimates .
it is being not a committee on -
generally , the Estimates , the Estimates , referred to the committee on the Canadian and money Finance .
the committee , at the in studying the " the Senate .
after what the the Senate endorse generally the bill to the Canadian ambassador the us so generally a little more later , the House of the House .
i draw the attention of the honourable senators , our report , the number of important , raised by the committee .
the senator Cools has indicated the 0,5 billion . $ that the government has directed in the Estimates , the Estimates Supplementary to deal of the Canadian the spark Island year 2000 .
we have also indicated the peculiarities of loans loans to the the governments foreign .
the committee was the opinion that the government would have develop a series of Criteria the us have the Canadian determine the relevance of the peculiarities of loans to the future .
he would have the well , the " may be a link between the peculiarities of the burden of yesterday and our policy of borrowing the near , but it is that a point of the first , the staff that I outlining .
it is the amount required to this end during the fiscal aware , about 132 million . $ , the 1970 million . $ seem be allocated to the new vessels the the Embassy the the Canada , Berlin .
we want to the will the 60 other million . $ and the Department of regulations the us enlighten the late the this issue .
we are impatients that he the report .
the question of the cost of the cost to the inquiry instituted by the government on the crash of the fare the Swissair the the coasts of the Nova Scotia Nova the summer raised .
the senator Ferretti Barth , substantive insisted on the fact that he was encouraging the government to continue to clamour a compensation to Swissair .
the long term , the committee is the opinion that he is changing the GST relevant to the Convention of Medicine to the the motor air and their assureurs assume a certain responsibility for the investigation and the prospect the " and Safety Standards .
the the rest that the Canada is particularly vuln?rable the the plan fiscal because the the number of Polish in the space Air is the high compared to the Canadian and country .
this issue . the " the most colourful the , and the senator Ferretti Barth , because of the the the Department of the Foreign Affairs , there dealt as the possible .
honourable senators , the increase the the fund to the the program of control of the weapons the gun the chamber attention our attention to the committee , and the senator Tkachuk the issue of the years , the Canadian and the few days after the the committee . the Whole .
a place . the us we demanding among the Canadian and the and I attirerais your attention of the the report of the Canadian , the Canadian and Cash paid the the system of the Act , the responsibility of the state .
this is the one of the issues favoris the the senator Doody , and the the the continued very efficiently , my faith , the as a number of the other colleagues during our hearings of Committee .
the point raised by the senator Doody was that the not terribly no provision in the Estimates , the Estimates for the case , the equity drop , the the government has lost the the courts - to say , that such as they are .
we peers all , I believe , the the motion of the Canadian route of the government . the government .
in the case , this , he has amass? the money in the credit to the salaries and the the benefits social , the human not win course not the same .
the officials officials we have the said that if the their the vow of the issues in the intervalle , they are have esquiv?es .
if the " had failed how the money the government announced the side , the case where he plays his case , the Government legal , for the not say , the Canadian the government would course , and the precarious .
we dealing the context in which the government has tranquillement amass? the the money without treatment in chiffrer the amount before the Order redout? the the would have paid .
it , the , however , for a number of the years , the government has developed the side of the hundreds of $ the $ , the reason , as a year , in the credit to the salaries and the the benefits social .
no - and we do the in the doctor and no - and we do . asked the question to the subject .
now that the case coming to his late - the government will still quelquefois the Canadian sellette - the government goes the money under the the article 30 , the Act , the responsibility of the state .
the Parliament . will not the less fortunate to the courts on the question nor the matter of the amount paid , or the Canadian the the the will undoubtedly , or the the reasons for reasons , is paid , or even the Canadian political the the government , and the Canadian , the
this is a question , the tracass? the best drain of the committee , the the honourable Bolduc , Doody , Cools and Moore , including the
i do Saskatchewan . The these senators , because all the members of the committee . the many involved in this issue .
we have indicated our esteemed of the back as a day .
i do know that is that this will , but I believe that the question is important .
honourable senators , after the follow the speech removal by our colleague , the senator Cools , and if you jetez a look the look the the report , as the , if you requesting the report that the committee has the Act , 1998 Supplementary the the Estimates , which speaks . C - the Canadian ambassador , you agree , I , will , the the committee has examined . After the budget and that you you , the conscience approve this bill to the .
( the motion is agreed and the bill to the motion read a second time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . third time ?
the senator Cools :
honourable senators , as we , we , a matter of a day . required to the " the third reading of the bill to the , but I believe that he is the one real consensus of the two sides of the House of the beginning now , the third reading .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
the .
the senator Murray :
i do think that the the Senate that the region our leave .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave . is not granted .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Cools , the third reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
bill to the Canadian 99 to the implementation of the Canadian taxation tax
third reading of Debate the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Hervieux - Payette , P , seconded by the Honourable Senator Gauthier , seconded the Canadian third reading of the bill to the S - 4 , the Republic of the one would , the the conventions and the the protocoles agreement between the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgarian , the Portugal , the Ouzb?kistan , the Jordan , the Japan and the Luxembourg , in the Canadian avoid the Republic Republic and the prevention the avoidance tax . the Canadian tax on the income .
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , the bill to the S - 4 , the Aboriginal the two committees .
i do speak . the Canadian decision of the committee , the Banking , the respect to the bill to the United the the study the the the the selfless .
the first , the the bill to the S - 4 is , basically , a measure to the Republic of double taxation .
he the number of the countries we have the intent of businessmen or in which we want invest , and the motion . in the public linked to the Canada and the the country Kelleher the feasibility a moment to legislation .
honourable senators , the bills of the duration of becoming the little tax . the not a involve .
the Parliament , " have a long .
as the people indicated the officials of the Agency the the income , and accurate another two stages to ensure the the the the citizens . sleazy the the business in the other countries . the not mobile two , the
the purpose of the bills of the in the Canadian taxation rate is the look at the the the not there was not the avoidance tax .
the bills of the Canadian . kind face the the government . the leviers the duration of diversity the the the all the tax exigibles that surveys .
however , I am 500,000 that the bill to the S - 4 , the the subject of the kind of the biggest not have not been submitted , and the Canadian law in the past , the the that would have the the case .
he is the one observer dignified the reference , and the motion of the Act , conventions tax , the summer into the the committee , the business foreign , rather than the the committee , the Banking , in May 1998 . If my correctly . correctly , the agreement . limited to the the country as the Croatia , the Chile and the Vietnam .
the committee , the business foreign the importance that the " no " no only to worry the tax and that the " was dealing the extent legislation . instances the Canadian all the issues of the political foreign .
as the Middle the honourable senators , after the Belgian the subject with a country , he does the Canadian many cases , we in sending the acceptance their structures , their values and their attitudes .
the the time , the examination by the committee , the senator Di Nino and the other members of the committee , the the senator Grafstein , if I am remind , the people expressed the opinion that we should be the assurance that the country with which we covenant the the agreements on the avoidance tax facilities the adequacy update , including the the courts independent .
they must recognize the law , the right .
honourable senators , the the many insisted on the question of the terms .
if the the business be to the addition , overseas and that the reason , a wide allowing the Republic of double taxation they are obligated the directors their Finance and their health of operating the one another country , we must be absolutely that these countries . used to information that the the purpose down in the agreement tax and the to the other grounds .
the experience I was conditioned that the Canadian many other countries , the terms . the concept the not there is the
if a department receives the the information , he is less respectueux the the rules of the , the Canadian confidentiality and the the rights of the particular and the the citizens .
fortunately , the number of these countries falling , but they are still a subject of concern .
in May 1998 , the so we had passed the bill to the duration of becoming the little tax , we have said that the Department of the Foreign Affairs should proceed to a compelling full to see if the country with which we we sign a wide allowing the Republic of double taxation the one priority acceptable , the Canadian and the the rights of the human and the the protection update the federal - charter , the practice and the Orders .
we must be to the when we covenant the agreement , the , we do bridges not to frustrate the our citizens and the the citizens of the country .
this point . was made in this chamber .
we have indicated , the Department of the Foreign Affairs , the " and other departments Kelleher and the the Senate that all the agreements of the kind should be done to the light of this .
honourable senators , I have said , the representatives of the Foreign Affairs , a bill to the duration of becoming the little tax . should not be introduced to the Parliament , a compelling full of the respect to the rights of the human by the country . the .
the us . guaranteed that is such a compelling would the the meaning of the the the government . the time regarded as a good intentions .
however , the suggestions that we have made to the opportunity to the bill to the not have not have the following , it is the
i am delighted to the fact that the senator Lynch - Staunton has championed with the Canadian vehemence the question of the respect to the rights of the human , and the Senate should the in thank .
he has given the question of choice of the committee which is the Canadian law would referred .
it is it . chamber strictly to the committee , the Banking or , the the motion . sense , the the committee , the business foreign ?
i am pleased that the Senate that out that the Canadian law , the committee , the business foreign .
in the intervention , the senator Lynch - Staunton has indicated that we should , in this chamber , joining our actions entirely the our fine words , the subject of the respect to the rights of the human .
i think that we should be the Canadian . , the
in this chamber , we are very proud of our special .
when the reports , adopted . the unanimous , I am more confiante the the fact that we believe that the principles of political and the recommendations made in our special the Canadian the value and that the government should the meeting the .
in our report on the Asia - Pacific , the Canadian page 97 , we have said that the political foreign has the Canadian factors own , fostering the respect to the rights of the human , as the right management of the business public , the happening and the corporation civil , the law , the right and the need to a correction independent .
the list . is not exhaustive , but it is the place . the fact , these factors before the us not we engagions in the the agreements and the the relationship with the other countries .
the Canadian page 109 the country report , we have heard the the principles of a political Canadian consistent in the Canadian Human the Canadian Human .
he joined the most of the obvious that the issues of Trade and the investment . should not be addressed alone , the rights of the human and the Canadian democracy .
we have indicated in our report of speech introduced by the Honourable Lloyd Axworthy , in the the the said that the rights of the human and the political foreign menaient the one approach pulse raisonn?e the the respect to the trade internationally and the the business foreign .
the result , as the committee , the reference in the report , the trade and the investment . the not taken alone .
he is the necessity squeeze with the rights of the human .
he is extremely important , honourable senators , the the image that plans the government . the Canada in the world slow the one approach sake , consistent and raisonn?e the the respect to the rights of the human .
he not be not acceptable the rights of the human the the other matters .
the rights of the human inspire all our plans of action and all the legislation .
we must be all the issues .
the the committee , the business foreign , the representatives of the new Agency the the income . Marshall that they not had looked that the two questions of the avoidance tax and the Canadian taxation rate , because it is the mandate the their the summer doing .
however , a the the problems , the motion that we do we are the Department of the error .
the new agency not . not fault the the same practices and the the same principles that a department average must respect .
the employee of the Department of the error not have not the same responsibilities to assume .
i stress that the , in the chapter the introduction of the report of November 99 , the Canadian page 18 , the Auditor General has said :
however , I fear that the government . the not suggesting enough to effect on the accountability the accountability and the Economy .
the by their nature , these mechanisms sells the question of liability redditionnelles compulsory the the ministers realize that the people political and programs to the Parliament and , by the through the the Parliament , the the citizens . General .
the the the Canadian and third , parties interference the the statutory , the ministers . the ever fully did the one .
in some cases , the the intentionnellement established the the statutory the way totally independent of the ministers , the the people so doubly the the fund and the the powers federal .
the accountability the accountability and the Economy update , these mechanisms can judge the Canadian ability to the Parliament of the in full the use the motion of the the powers federal and the protection of the Canadian and individuals to a accountability the accountability the Canadian the Canadian the government .
the Agency the the income calling the implementation of political tax .
it is continually the one of provisions and it . Appointments .
when the the requested to the people . the the concern to questions such the rights of the human , the worldwide management of the business public and the ability constitutional , they have answered that they will the remettaient the the Foreign Affairs .
if the Department of the Foreign Affairs stated that he is the presence of a relationship diplomatic with a government , the Agency the the income . in the that the
it is the not part of the mandate , for the moment of the least .
the Department of the Foreign Affairs is therefore , SUCCESS the should be the country to the look if the motion of such a country with which we should sign the the agreements international .
the following the testimony of officials officials of the Foreign Affairs , he is clear that he not there is the the public . the Department of process independent and shut the grain the basis that the country with which we concluons the the agreements for so , double taxation are well , the country with which we wish alters and expand our relations .
the senator Lynch - Staunton has quoted the example of the Ouzb?kistan .
the record of the Ouzb?kistan not . not copy .
the Ouzb?kistan is still mortgaged by the vestiges the the Union Soviet .
he has the contribution , changes , but it is the not changed significantly his way of managing the business public .
the , the registered the the abuse of the rights of the human and the situation . the rights of the human is still such as Ouzb?kistan that this should we use .
the same , the Ouzb?kistan the signing the the pactes international the hiring the respect to the Canadian the man .
we have the the least , a indication that the country accept the user the practical internal the one control international .
the Union Soviet the the left a heritage disastrous the the plans environmentally and political .
this , I concern , the motion that one . the motion payroll of whether systematically the situation . the country marginalized in the bill to the S - 4 .
i do know that how the other countries , by the the Algeria , the Bulgarian , the Jordan , the Japan , the Lebanon and the Luxembourg , the compare the the Ouzb?kistan , and I do know that the people . Kraft by the " a standard World the federal - rights of the man .
i do know that the principles or bypass the us explain the Whole , such a monopoly country deserves the us traitions with him .
human not seem to directed the problem .
the the I went to agree with the principle of the conventions to the Republic of Croatia Republic , I stand outset that we do we not differentiate the country . the so that we do we are not exclude , in good government that we thought , the Hon. integrity .
he would unfair the suspending a country . the list of the bill to the S - 4 , the " the pre constant systematically all the other with which we have concluded a moment agreement .
as the the record , the Portugal and the Luxembourg , by the , are the the country , the as the Canada , are members of the NATO and the the OECD and therefore , we are relatively happening the people political .
the Canada has always took as hybrid the Declaration Universal the the rights of the man and the motion tried to judge the country by the " a standard similar .
we do take any country , the CHST the example .
when we do staffs not with a country , when we mess the have the the relationship with a country , the motion that , after the have felt that some principles , we approach that is the not the not satisfied the the criteria .
he is clear , the following our analysis of the bill to the S - 13 , the the government . the not voiced the standards .
the government . the not complied the CCN that the one way of Committee to the the perpetrators the the standards .
he would then unfair the pointer a country . the doigt the the stadium .
i do think that the us should judge the people and the country . the accident .
he is nevertheless , so consistent and shut .
this approval is related to the respect to the rights of the human , the the principle of the good government , the Canadian law , the right and the the independence of the Bench the I have heard .
the message that we sending the " and individuals , the motion that they must respect to rule of the little tax and that they must provide the the information financial the one another country .
we must be to the , when we covenant these agreements , the provisions the the business of golden findings to the " the foreign , we begin to the Canadian ensure the the the the information occurs by our business . the not used to the the purpose malicious and that our citizens . the not the Canadian government or the treatment the armed contrary to the standards Canadian .
honourable senators , I have raised the question . the one time , with which I , will .
the bill to the S - 4 shows that we do we not able to test .
the result , I could questionable that the Canadian and country . failed to the
we must put the the Order the us .
the Minister Axworthy about the one of foreign based on the the principles .
i ask the the government . the Canada and the the Department of the Foreign Affairs , to the words , the to the , when we reach us to the next bill to the in the Canadian taxation rate , the officials so we ensure that the the standards exist and that they are respected by the country with which we covenant the agreements .
the Honourable Nicholas W . Taylor :
honourable senators , I have listened with the the senator Andreychuk , the the subject of experience .
i am a member recent the the committee , the business foreign , but , in the part of my work in the world . the business , I am glad in a couple of the .
i agree that he not . not also easy that he attach the be sitting , the Senate and the subject of the meaning moral and the the rights of the human in the other countries and the effectiveness their degree of respect to the rights , our own standards .
it . the feeling the Canadian legendary Greeks the Procruste .
when the invitation of the house , too great to the preamble , Procruste their coupait the luck , and the people were too small , he and ?tirait the members .
the some ways , is the kind of argument that the honourable the the other side of argument ; as Procruste , they believe that the country must be restructured the country before the fault of what we do we not to the with him .
we must be some aspects as the Environment and the trade , and the only the Canadian and the Canadian the human .
the the years of the years , I have found that the best way of the move the good ideas , the motion by the through the the trade .
it goes the - be the the time when the Portugais the Belgian the the matter . Africa , in Asia and the Canadian , the
the senator Andreychuk :
it is the the the birthdays !
the senator Taylor :
yes , a great many of famine ideas the so . import?es in the New operates .
however , the trade did the Canadian telecommunications the Canadian improve the rights of the human and the dark human in every region .
he was the the effects repetitive .
the not cannot compare this , the 1950 the the cardinals century , the situation exists .
we have the Canadian and progress and the ages that we , we follow the the trade , and the not because the Canadian and country comes to the are warm that the other and that they deny the the privilege with the other states the least , these games . becoming the good that they .
this is a way Branch the deal of the .
the the speedily , but the more in de?? the the level hoped , we should the occasional the Antarctic the businessmen with him .
however , the the r?gresse and removes the the people of Rights , they Crown a generation 81 , we should be the be used the trade , a way we might the the voluntary the respect to their environmental and the rights of the human .
my formative the g?ologue I bring the - be the feeling that we must identify the people pace or r?gressent .
if a state speedily , the the the not the not yet billion our level , he worth the - be the only to advise with him .
the senator has spoken of the Ouzb?kistan .
we are we made all of the this part of the world .
this is the person - be not a good idea of selecting the country because the the the very the side of the Afghanistan , the motion gouvern? by a system taliban .
i put the the Canada , the challenge of the very tolerant the the one of the Subcommittee talibans the the border , patrouillant the mountains .
the repository not the problems , focus the government . the Ouzb?kistan .
he not the not to agree the Railway with the the groups harshness and gentle as the Conservative , the NDP - NDP or the Liberal ; his in the first , the
the result , he is a little unfair the " that he should use of the system .
personally , I am the opinion that the Ouzb?kistan the Canadian and progress outstanding .
the have spent the the time , Iran and the Afghanistan , I am in the Canadian , the the Ouzb?kistan is the displaced the one of several years , light of some ways .
the in return to our respect , he joined difficult to prosper the progress registered .
we do we are trying to determine whether these countries pace and we remember the importance historic the the trade been the the time imm?moriaux .
if the " allies to the first authors grecs the ?crivaient the the impact of the Gr?ce the Africa , the widespread that is the the trade , the fishing the Canadian Industrial and the the ideas of the propager the one area , the other .
he is to strive and that the so , dairy and the crops are good , the are the the finiront by survive , rather than the the ideas and the the crops funestes the people . the corporation r?gresse the the plan of the respect to the rights of the human .
the way general , honourable senators , despite , reculs here and that , the betterment seems advance and the motion to the trade that it . the .
he does time that it . hundred the the Congregation , the prior , the following , but the trade is almost , the way of the effective and the most impartiale the make freely the ideas and the crops .
i do I do the agreement with these people or the groups who trying to us that , this , the Canada , the us not we not deal with a country determined because the the not attained not the standards .
i listened to believe that the long term , the trade obey the Canada and the world best .
the senator Andreychuk :
honourable senators , the senator Taylor accept the Canadian answer to a question ?
the senator Taylor :
certainly , the so I am very busy the night .
the senator Andreychuk :
i am sure that this is doing not a the Hon. the .
the senator we , a point that I have heard the , the five years , fix the the government , Gilles that he is acceptable the trade , the question of the respect to the rights of the human .
the recent however , the Minister Axworthy the clear up to the , the one link between the trade and the rights of the human .
the senator has raised in just as a view , which I am , the fact , with the the motion ? " - that the the then try to see if a country . improving or the Canadian and the to the latest the the chapter the the rights of the human , or the the r?gresse in the area .
my question includes two stages .
the Canadian first , the senator . Therefore - the not the Canadian political the the government . lier the two areas . That ?
second , not . - the not the opinion that the standard the I talking equivalent to the principle that he was mentioned , the motion ? " - that the basis , a country speedily or r?gresse in the matter of the rights of the human ?
the senator Taylor :
honourable senators , I am pleased that the senator anthologies that we must assess differently the country , testing and pace and those who r?gressent or suppriment the the rights .
certainly , the weapon ultimate the the trade , the are the sanctions .
we have had the " and sanctions trade in Africa , although some say that they not have not have a the effects supportive .
we have had the " and sanctions in Bosnia ; it is that the the frustrations the problem of the Kosovo in a certain the .
i do I do have the air of a rebel , but I do Barbados not also closely the trade and the rights of the human that the the fact , Minister of the Foreign Affairs , the the Honourable Senator .
i do I do the " is the .
let a little our relationship with the China .
our trade trade with the China , many and the trade we bring . the money , but the standard application to the country , though the same that we used to the Ouzb?kistan , the us not achetons that some cuirs and peaux .
otherwise , the us we ensure the the the one based important in some regions . hidden not all kinds of cattle d?l?t?res .
i believe that the same that the trade is the best way of the Canadian such situations .
the Minister of the Foreign Affairs . " the not squelched that a region whatever the motion to import because the us we implemented the " and trade trade with the .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Lynch - Staunton , the debate is adjourned . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , he is now 15 at 1:30 and , pursuant to the Order of the Senate , the Senate . adjourned . p.m. at tomorrow .
( the Senate . adjourned . p.m. at tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
designate th , 36 th ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 23
the Thursday 16 d 99
the Honourable Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the dumping
Maxwell Tabled '
tributes to the opportunity to his retirement
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
the Assembly Parliamentary the the Organization for the safety and the cooperation in Europe , held in the 13 , the 15 October 1998
these Canadians who have Women our history
the Senate
the state of health of the senator Adams Adams
visitors in Gallery
business routine
security and services of security
tabling of the answer to the government to the report of the committee Special
the situation exists the the system fiscal Canadian and international
introduction of the report of the committee , the Banking and the the trade
internal Economy , Budgets and Administration
tabling of the third report of the committee
the Act , the Defence down - Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques - Code offence
report of the committee
the Act , the statistics - Act , the Archives Finance . the Canada
bill to the Second - First Reading
the Union Inter
tabling of the report of the group Canadian of the Union Inter - the 102e conference Inter held in Berlin , Germany
tabling of the report of the group Canadian of the Union Inter - the 54e session of the Assembly general , the United Nations held in New York
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
tabling of the report of the delegation Canadian , the conference of the Assembly Parliamentary the the Organization for the safety and the cooperation in Europe Parliamentary the the 13 , the 15 October 1998
the Association Inter Canada - France
tabling of the report of the signatures - ninth meeting Annual the Canadian delegation Canadian Conference of the 8 to the 15 September 1998
the Union Inter
report of the group Canadian of the Union Inter - the 102e conference Inter held in Berlin , in Germany , Notice of inquiry
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the fate of the farmers c?r?aliers the the West - Government Response the the report of the committee , the House of the House
the difficulties of the c?r?aliculteurs the the West
the difficulties of the c?r?aliculteurs the the West - Conformity waiting the one answer to the Prime Minister
the Foreign Intergovernmental
the Ontario , The Act , the restructuring regional - Government pledged the the power legal the Canadian city of Ottawa
the Transportation
the agreement on the border the the Pearson airport the Halifax - Conformity obligation of the government , the control of Nature acide the the ardoise
the Aboriginal Peoples
the Canadian response to the report of the committee on the former Veterans aboriginal
on business orders
bill to the Canadian ambassador No. 3 to 99 - 2000
third reading
bill to the Canadian 99 to the implementation of the Canadian taxation tax
third reading
bill to the Act , Trade final nisga' the
second reading of Second the the debate
the royal Assent
bill to the Second - Second Reading - Debate the the debate
the Act , the Immigration
bill to the Second - Second Reading - Consideration of the debate
official languages
the Canadian the second report of the committee Joint Committee
the Canadian the regulatory
the Canadian the Prime report of the committee Joint Committee
the Union monetary European
the report of the committee , the business foreign - Consideration of the debate
the application tabled under the Canadian Act , the Transportation the the Canada During some carriers air enhancing the salaries and the agreements , with Earl - Report of the third report of the committee , the Transportation and the the communication
the Ontario
the bill to the Act , engineering regional - Conformity refusal of contempt Ottawa record bilingual - Inquiry - Point of the debate
royal ASSENT
the Ontario
the bill to the restructuring regional - Conformity refusal of the government 500,000 the feasibility of Stamp to the make the Ottawa . city bilingual - Inquiry - Debate the the debate
the recommendations of the board Royal the the Aboriginal Peoples respecting the Canadian public policy aboriginal
the Canadian the report of the committee , the Aboriginal Peoples
business Social , Science and Technology
leave to the committee , to the state of the system of health
business foreign
leave to the committee , until the date of the tabling of the report final the the study of the amendment brought to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty the the Atlantic North
the recommendations of the board Royal the the Aboriginal Peoples respecting the Canadian public policy
leave granted to the committee , until the tabling of the report final
the Senate
the licensing of a refugee bilingual the Canadian city of Ottawa - Report of the motion
the best of l
adjournment
the Senate
the Thursday 16 d 99
the Chair . Chair . p.m. at the the Speaker , the the Chair .
prayers .
tributes to the opportunity to his retirement
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , I wish to the the name of the Senate , that a word of Adieu Special the one man , I am proud of the call friend , Mr. Richard Greene , our Clerk Deputy , the effect , retirement .
i do I do that Richard we leaving the the the Senate , imposed how I am fiais the Canadian wisdom , the the knowledge and the the skills that he called generously to my clause , and that , the prior to the not to the the Senate .
in La the curriculum vitae yesterday , I have learned that he was begun his career here in the the page , in 1956 .
this is the year , the I quittais teethed to a walking the " I takes , in person of the young students Canadian and American , a little over the the country and the " and Agricultural Nations , a week .
i had the 16 years and I do I have feat the " the motion that geriatrics Hat .
but we have all the two attrap? the virus the deadline . walls and we in the fact , the Canadian job of the one of the
the first priority was the well that , the meeting of some Jean Sutherland , the was considered with the the respect to reprimand as the and I quote , the Canadian lady the Lord the Senate to the
the following the the I have been managing the the time , it seemed may a vital key to the good operating the the site .
jean Sutherland the one young manager the tainted the little about the Act , functioning of the Senate , the process of the legislation and the traps in which may enhance a government n?gligent the not respect to the Orders of the Canadian consultation and the cooperation .
he was that the to prevent the people as I , emb?ter Jean Sutherland and the " . the " the armed the first , the it was the
the funeral , the , the motion . sure Richard Greene .
moreover , skills , Richard was a man charming and we are immediately Maritimers the very good friends , the so I , died in principle when someone that walked the kind , the
i commend the " that the the Senate . the Canada . the ever had the employee , loyalist that Richard Greene .
the importait the pressure , the the the importait , the was that the functions , in this place and the not the concerns of the occupants , what the identification their party .
i do the I have seen everything patience or his sense of the humour , contrary to me .
i regret that he has decided to us leave , but I know that the family real - Ethel , Lesley and Steven - will pharmacare the be the centre of the attention .
i wish to the Richard that we reach , friends .
i would question . my best wishes to the new challenges and the new aventures that the life , demonstrates .
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , when Richard Greene is out in the 1956 , he was part of a new group of senators , realize the the people as Chubby coal , David Croll , Hartland Molson , Denise McQueen Fergusson and I father , Captain Connolly .
the basis of the time when he has started to work in this chamber , I have begun to my the " in Cairo this chamber , because I want numerous with my father , the years of the first years here .
i know if Richard the record , but it is the case of my that a Cadillac black , the disasters a place before the coming of the Senate when the wife , the senator Basha the delinkage to the I conduise the Cadillac the the senator Basha .
he and I shall memories that the the time , he is the more of the Senate . sculpture the years in the couloirs .
the montait and d?montait the ?chafaudages and the the Order of the next apparaissait a new gargouille .
this are the worthwhile that I have the so that young daughter the 12 , 15 years errant around the this place .
i share the worthwhile with Richard Greene .
honourable senators , he is the one link Special of the position of Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate and the position served by Richard - that is the " - that the " the announcement of the retirement .
each day , benefits around the 10 or 11 at the Richard Greene convened in the board of the Leader Deputy with the " scroll the .
many of senators coded the the the motion , but it . the testimony struggling the paper that recognise the Leader Deputy of the government and the Opposition the the Opposition .
they indicate that the will the devastating in this chamber .
i am assoyais with Richard and we suspend if it extended to this day - that the
the that , I wish to the Michelle MacDonald , I tireless , the great pleasure , misery the mistakes of Richard .
we do the technicality not very often , but when we , occasionally , we are amusions the the fact that the document . the not come under the form perfect as the usual .
Michelle the Permanent the I , that the the times deplore in my office we missing . .
Richard was a professional consumed .
he was a consistent incredible the editorials , the other note of the the the one of the Canadian to the the the the looking for easier a little bit the life , only to the Leader Deputy and the the Leader of the government to the Senate , but also to all the other senators , this chamber .
i had need to the support and the Hon. the , and the " and the opinions welcome with affection and humour .
i would thank the the years , which we have worked together , Richard .
you get us forget .
the Honourable Marcel Prud ' s
honourable senators , he is the chamber . intrigued that we do we not the .
i believe that this event , and marqu?M. Flame .
honourable senators , I have the the difficulty the word that the dean of the members of the staff of the two Houses that I whose , the
i know that the Hon. the I deviendrai the second , former here , after Herb Gray , the the other place .
Mr. . Flame and I have often travelled and worked together .
Mr. . Flame and the wife have been very enrich to the one of my kindred the the years of a travelling and we are paying the good friends .
honourable senators , I do I do prepared to notes because the I do agree that the my comments taking a market too official .
Richard we miss him , but I listened to believe that the end of the , he not we Doiron not really .
look - the date , the scuttled the highest the comments nateur that we have the Hon. the .
i hope do that is the the the will happen .
however , the the vacancy the life truly this place , I wish to the full that the question of the I , conserverai , I friendship .
the the name of all the honourable senators , I wish him to personally , the the , the Hon. wife and the all its friends , our best wishes .
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
the Assembly Parliamentary the the Organization for the safety and the cooperation in Europe , held in the 13 , the 15 October 1998
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
the history and the theory of the r?gionalisme economic and the life , the conference of Nantes the the leadership maker the country . friend Jacques Floch , MP distinguished the the Assembly national French .
when Jacques , the motion of the the committee , the economy . the OSCE , I was invited , in my good of Deputy - chairman of the same Committee , the poll a region single the the Canada , no . " the Financial the most that the North Canadian .
if you look a performed the high in there , you thumb that the region Aboriginals is the region , the vast the rest , inexploit?e and the " no , not yet established the card .
you decreases that the North the the North and the European are g?ographiquement the families neighbours .
one of ?troit gave the sea harsh the United - United the Canadian Federation , that the the amorphous the bridge continental called Strait of B?ring .
remember , you the dream the one smooth to the China , the North - western the animait the first explorateurs , the start by Jacques Cartier , the , he is the most of five centuries , the motion ship to the Canada . Robichaud - Malo , the the North the Nantes , the the in the country conference .
the spark of the North - Western , the lumber the summit the the Brandenburg , is long - 2200 the 2900 miles nautiques , presented the road exactly .
the CHST the Joint the the group Inter Canada - United - United , I have attended the one conference , Washington the the years of the the senator Murkowski the the Alaska , our Joint American , the bross? a lot invigorating the Canadian vision that he was esquiss?e the country meeting of Quebec , the early this year .
he has suggested that the Canada and the United - United united their efforts to create a link rail North - jung of the Alaska , the Yukon and the British - British , the " the border American , in achevant a Highway the 900 miles .
the senator Murkowski the well talked the idea of a place Liaison rail - the significance of the coasts of the menu .
this subsection rail hence by a tunnel the the Strait of B?ring to the Russian continentale .
the this place , the husks and the North the the North not have separated that the one cinquantaine the fishing .
he could the , the one Liaison rail and the - be the safety of the Russian , the United - United and the Canada , through the Canadian Technology the " the point in Europe , the tunnel the Canadian Manche .
imagine that the so that the Canadian London , Paris , the , efficient then a transsib?rien the great skating to westward the Russian to the the Pacific , preferred then the Strait of B?ring to achieve the Alaska , putting quickly to the south , from the the Yukon and the British - British to the Vancouver , then filer to the south to the Hollywood or , to the motion , the " York Times or Halifax the Canadian Coast Atlantic .
the that will be , economically , the the beginning of the next century .
it would enable the strongest - 98 strategic the the economy World and amending deeply the relationship strategic and economic .
i wish to thank the new Jacques Floch , the France , the us to strive to imagine a great bill septentrional to the 21 century , a bill , awaited the new arrangements economic to the most of the Canadian all the people of the planet .
i take the this opportunity to add to all the honourable a pleasure new millennium .
these Canadians who have Women our history
the Honourable Lucie pin :
honourable senators , the century , the work . was witness the major changes to the health in all the jurisdictional the dark .
these changes . have not been possible without the efforts tension the number women is binding ; and the women who is the not have fear of work tireless to obtain the justice social and the innover despite the high oppositions .
in the the corporation , we are we are .
the Canadian offered the the new millennium , he not . the fair to the council the country remember and the their visit tribute .
lack of time , I do back after the the world .
if I do the Governor today , the few of acknowledgement , my sincere appreciation will the all the health , the issue of the Canadian the equality of the women in the years of the century , the work .
we celebrate this year , sixty - tenth anniversary of the case , one of the
may the subject of evolution of the women . mention the five Carlos Canadians :
Irene Parlby , Nellie McClung , Jane marry , Henrietta Muir Edwards and Louise McKinney , the people brought the committee judicial the the Council Office the seat that the word " person to the the North the the North the the North British incluait the women and that the women could be appointees the the Senate .
the the " the Agnes MacPhail , first woman to be elected to the House of the House of 1921 ?
the it and the the five Carlos Canadians , how the one we would have today , the
Ms r Casgrain the summer the first belief the lead a party politics .
the 1942 the 1962 , it has been elected nine time in the the Bloc raced federal and provincial .
Jeanette Viviane Corbiere Lavell is a place wife extraordinary the the work , and the defence the right to the women aboriginal .
in 1970 , it has doctor the article 12 , the Act , the Indian , the exception losing the status of Indian to the women aboriginal the ?pousaient the the only the aboriginal .
the Court Supreme rejeta his request , but Sandra Lovelace d?cida the attention of the committee , the Canadian and the Canadian the human the the United Nations , and the Act , the Indian the summer amended in 1985 .
he is the so Madeleine chairpersons the , for 40 years , the summer active in the movement syndical the the Quebec .
in 1942 , it has presided the Canadian syndicalisation the the targets the automotive the height Dominion Textiles the employaient , the the women .
he not be not forget the gun Senator Yvette Rousseau , the the summer a the the pionni?res the Canadian syndicalisation in the targets the automotive the the clothes .
he not be not forget Kay Livingston , Chair courageous the Canadian News Negro Women' s Association , the the summer the cheville tribune of the Prime convention national the the women Race the Toronto .
the convention there are now , the one occasion sustainable the the efforts .
the other h?ro?nes Canadian , mentionnonsElizabeth Bagshaw , the doctor v. Powell and the docteurLise Fortier .
the doctor Bagshaw the summer Director of the first clinical the control of the dams the the Canada .
it has led the donor the the Ontario , smuggled , the 1932 the 1966 .
the doctor Powell the fact , the " Toronto .
the the government , the docteurLise Fortier the investigator the first clinical the planning the the dams the the Quebec and the fought tireless to obtain the right to the free choice for the women in the Canada .
many are the women exceptional the people Women our history , the the Senate in the areas of the political , the the care of the health or the the rights of the human .
all the fact , the courage , the test , the leadership and the ability .
the provinces , the Canada . would not the democracy bequeath , prosperous and independence that he is today , the
we are the 21 century will not the h?ro?nes that this last decade .
the so . words of Nellie McClung sustains our h?ro?nes the near :
the Senate
the state of health of the senator Adams Adams
the Honourable Isobel Finnerty :
honourable senators , I am very pleased to note that the senator Adams Adams , the the blood a senior surgery important , yesterday , the reputable extremely , and , namely , the , will the back up .
the pronostic is good .
visitors in Gallery
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I would draw the presence in our gallery of the wife deRichard Flame , Ethel , and the their tapestries , Steve .
honourable senators , I know that the Speakers not have not consider the make a speech , but , in this opportunity , I wish thank personally Richard , a friend with the I have worked for the Canadian 29 years .
business routine
security and services of security
tabling of the answer to the government to the report of the committee Special
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I have the honour to table , with a pleasure , partageront will the other senators , they the liront , the answer to the government to the report of the committee Special the the Senate on the safety and the services of security .
the situation exists the the system fiscal Canadian and international
introduction of the report of the committee , the Banking and the the trade
the Honourable E . Leo Kolber , the Canadian the committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade , the the report following :
the Thursday 16 d 99
the Committee on the Canadian and Commerce and the the trade , the honour to present its
third REPORT
your Committee , the the summer authorized by the Senate . Tuesday , 23 November 99 the review of the present the the system fiscal Canadian and international and the make the " the most later , 31 December 2000 , the respectfully that the Committee be authorized to withhold the services of lawyers , the councillors technical and the first , staff necessary to the so that the the place . a place to the other , the Canada and the the foreign to the purpose of the inquiry .
the budget was introduced to the Committee on the Canadian Economy Economy , the the Economy , the the board of jeudi16 December 1998 . In the second report , the Committee of the Economy Economy , noted that he welcomes the one of the Canadian the budget of the committee , the Senate and the Canadian recommendation that 6 / 12 , the fund guaranteed that lib?r?s the chamber , 10 February 2000 .
this report was passed by the Senate . Tuesday at December 1998 .
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we , report ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Kolber , the study of the report is placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
internal Economy , Budgets and Administration
tabling of the third report of the committee
with the leave of the Senate , I wish to this , wish .
the Hon. the Speaker :
leave granted , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Rompkey :
honourable senators , I wish to add the welcome to Gary O Brien in the new position .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the senator Rompkey :
Gary not the not need to Presentation .
he we commit faithfully and the .
he not the the air of this , but his humility hidden a great experience and a great the .
he is true in the case , he is the suspicious of the water the dort .
Mr. . Gary O Brien , Ph . D . , is Professor the foreseeable and the part of expert the loss F . Kennedy .
this is a enseignant .
he attends the one some of the activities extraparlementaires to the most of honour to our game .
the - that the , Gary we , provided a service out fine .
this is a the the people to which the word service . a sense .
i have been impressed by the justice , the evidence Gary in the part of the services . the us provides .
he is that the things that the as it is the the not m?nage no effort to this end .
i know that he retain this attitude in the new position .
i would wish to welcome in your new position , Gary , and I would offer our congratulations .
let - I , telling a history apocryphe .
i do you say that the in the the author , but I am I gave the the " the time , the arrival of Richard the the Senate , he is the Act , a habit to the human the comblerait the position .
this was a habit to a man of low size and the rather strong charter .
Richard the first , the the main to h?riter the this habit .
he has had the position and the motion with us have the time .
the result , the person is that the the Senate , in the case of Richard , the habit the the moine .
the senator Carstairs , the the Richard the known a number of the actions of bec , the one of the it has also been m?l?e .
i am sure that Richard the in my the most of a decision of bec in this chamber , the years of the years .
he is out that the distinguished legal the the country . risk here for the ceremony , the the authority written valid and Richard the the removal to the people required to the desirability .
if the the motion of fiscal the the power .
Richard , I would greetings , the congratulations the Gerry and the Nicky .
honourable senators , I wish to congratulate the table the the Transportation the people acc?d? the Canadian and eliminate .
we are hoping the welcome in their new part .
we are f?licitons and we are remercions the their work in the past .
we know that they continue to us bring a job of high quality in the future .
i wish to the midst all the people who work for us , this as the , and the numbers our issues .
we are remercions the the service of high quality that they are the legal .
i wish to each of the provinces and the all the honourable senators , the joyeuses celebrations .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the leave is the it leave to the Honourable Senator Nolin the other the honourable ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Honourable Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , I wish to the " as the chairman of the Canadian your committee , the Economy Economy , the the Economy , the the board , wish to welcome to Gary O Brien and the Canadian opportunity to the work . the .
i know that the Flame for the working with him to the years of the five years in the the committee , the Economy Economy .
this is a man . effective , by the , the basis .
as the said , Senator Rompkey , behind the face dark the feelings certainly a man effective and thoughting .
i am join the " the senator Rompkey , he hoped the opportunity to the " and colleagues , the Transportation the people acc?d? recently , the new responsibilities .
the Act , the Defence down - Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques - Code offence
report of the committee
the Honourable Lorna Milne , Chair of the committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional , the the report following :
the Thursday 16 d 99
the Committee on the Canadian and business legal and Constitutional the the honour to present its
third REPORT
your Committee , which has been examined the Telecommunications the bill S - 10 , the Act , the Act , national Defence , the Act , the identification by the fingerprints g?n?tiques and the Code offence the , pursuant to the Order of Reference of the jeudi18 November 99 , examined obedience bill to the and the fact , report with the amendments following :
page 18 , section 19 :
the motion Substituer , the Canadian line 25 , the the following :
the 19 .
b ) Ajouter , after the line 38 , the the following :
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Milne , the study of the report is placed on the Order of the Order of the next sitting . )
the Act , the statistics - Act , the Archives Finance . the Canada
bill to the Second - First Reading
the Honourable Lorna Milne , the bill to the S - 15 , the Act , the Act , used and the Act , the Archives Finance ( documents the rencensement ) .
( the bill to the motion read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when shall - we are the Canadian law . second time ?
( the Canadian motion of the senator Milne , the second reading of the bill to the motion placed on the Order of the Order of the Chair of the mardi8 February 2000 .
tabling of the report of the group Canadian of the Union Inter - the 102e conference Inter held in Berlin , Germany
the Honourable Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , I have the honour to table the report of the group Canadian of the Union Inter , the the represented the Canada , la102e conference Inter held in Berlin , in Germany , the the 10 , the 16 October .
tabling of the report of the group Canadian of the Union Inter - the 54e session of the Assembly general , the United Nations held in New York
the Honourable Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , I have the honour to table the report of the group Canadian of the Union Inter the the represented the Canada , the 54e session of the Assembly general , the United Nations held in New York du25 the the 27 October 1998 .
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
tabling of the report of the delegation Canadian , the conference of the Assembly Parliamentary the the Organization for the safety and the cooperation in Europe Parliamentary the the 13 , the 15 October 1998
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I have the honour to table , in the two languages official , the report of the delegation Canadian of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe entitled : " Document the Nantes the , the door the Canadian second conference of the Assembly Parliamentary the the Organization for the safety and the cooperation in Europe , held in the 13 , the 15 October 1998 , Nantes the France , the the the summer . the the process of cooperation economic infrar?gionale the European the Canadian light of the new challenges the challenges .
the Association Inter Canada - France
tabling of the report of the signatures - ninth meeting Annual the Canadian delegation Canadian Conference of the 8 to the 15 September 1998
the Honourable rald - A .
honourable senators , I have the honour to table the report of the signatures - neuvi?mer?union Annual the Canadian delegation Canadian departure Association Inter Canada - France , the the in the " Montreal , Laval , Ottawa , Vancouver and Victoria , the the 8 au15 September 1998 .
the Union Inter
report of the group Canadian of the Union Inter - the 102e conference Inter held in Berlin , in Germany , Notice of inquiry
the Honourable Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , I give notice that the Canadian second observation the Canadian next sitting , the 8 February 2000 , I give the attention of the Senate on the report of the group Canadian of the Union Inter - la102e conference Inter held in Berlin the the 9 au16 October 1998 .
Maxwell Questions Tabled
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the fate of the farmers c?r?aliers the the West - Government Response the the report of the committee , the House of the House
the Honourable Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
i have been very Whip the comments . morning in the U.S. Financial that the Prime Minister of tighten the Canadian . the Canadian crisis in the Agriculture only after the period of the Antigonish .
i ask the the issues . the subject for a year and shocking .
the first ministers provincial and the Dennis Mills now , and I , in know grateful - indicate that they will bring the attention of the writings of Toronto , the way of a day , regarding the
the committee , the Agriculture the Canadian House of the House of the record in the Prairies and I have been the two of the eight meetings .
this committee has made to the excellent work .
he has recognized that he is the serious problems , the the Agriculture is the crisis and that the program ACRA not give not the results Province .
the committee has the fact , the the findings to the Prime Minister and the the cabinet ?
i believe that the Canadian House of the House . reconvenes probably not the Senate before the 7 February .
the committee has the fact , the recommendations to the Prime Minister and the the cabinet the Canadian , the the the the the rest in the Prairies ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I say , the Honourable Senator that the committee , the House of the House of the one good work for the the was in the Prairies .
he is the course , the opinions strong the the the fact , the the Prime Minister , the the Minister of the Agriculture and the Canadian and premiers .
the Prime Minister has been the opportunity to speak to the members of the cabinet the Canadian team of the committee in the Prairies and the motion . " the armed the the problem .
he is the the the not there was not , as it has been said in the article , the meeting shortfall the the first ministers of this l , but not only to the hour that the Prime Minister has decided to the the problem on a way of garage .
the senator Gustafson :
honourable senators , the person to ask what degree of emergency the situation will achieve the the the Prime Minister of the case .
the Prime Minister has the Solicitor the committee ?
i was Secretary Parliamentary the the Prime Minister Mulroney and the not in what is as the that the purpose of the people who had a serious problem . meeting with him .
this committee has made a wonderful work , and I was that the the look .
he has recognized that the program ACRA not carry not , the the main fully r?orienter the area crop affected and that is the one problem national very serious .
i do I understand why he not Undeterred not to obtain a meeting with the Prime Minister .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
the ones ground of golf is the the ?
this is that the the need truth .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I know what meetings have been a place between the Prime Minister and the members of the committee .
i know , the the members of the committee , individually or in the , the fact , the their views to the Prime Minister , the the Minister of the Agriculture and the Canadian and also .
as the the Income the will take the Canadian Conference of a meeting shortfall , I do the news is to the time .
i am sure that the Prime Minister does the opinions of the members of the committee and that he is looking the the problem . the years of the next weeks and the the next month , the the the not there has not the meeting shortfall the the first ministers .
the difficulties of the c?r?aliculteurs the the West
the Honourable David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , I have a question supplementary to question to this regard .
if the mother deDavid Wappel attempting to meet the Prime Minister of the the the previous , I think that David Wappel croupirait , in prison .
the the Hon. the
the senator Tkachuk :
well , the the time . time , abolish the tone in this room !
the senator Graham :
welcome reasonable .
posez a question .
the senator Tkachuk :
i the am .
the the side - the Canadian the chamber , we have been very patients .
we posons these issues have a year and shocking .
this is the not as if we do the aircraft , the last .
i the I have I also .
the Canadian and senators , in the the people . the the motion of the , including , the the senator Sparrow .
we have asked this issue of occasions again and the only answer to us we obtenue , the motion : " We we look that the
the - be the the program . values . "
the the world know , the Canada . the program . values .
the Prime Minister of abstiendra the Canadian to the the loans and the the grants in his riding for the period of the Antigonish or continue to the opening all major the vannes the the Treasury public , his riding for the the the fermera to the Prairies ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the Prime Minister remain very busy with all the problems economic the the country and the not be the very little of hearing what the Senate . the Canadian the year .
i do I do fall of state of the situation with the are the the actions of farmers , in the Prairies , the
however , I wish to remind the the honourable senators , the government . is committed to provide a balancing not negligible .
the entire clearly , the program , as we , we said , the years of the debate on the Senate , not give not the results Province .
we are we undertook to the review and the resulting the the the the money that touches most efficiently the the farmers .
in addition , since my arrival , 170 million . $ the most of the RCMP to the program .
the Prime Minister Romanow , the wish so . the Supplementary , the beleaguered the not . the CCN to contribute the same amount the so , with the the fund additional $ that the province is the make .
i do the am not sure , but I think that the Prime Minister Romanow the report of budget . recently .
what the the in the , the government provincial not seem not have expected to give the new courses .
he is 500,000 the in La the the government , the
Mr. . Romanow the deficit has some years ago , the UI budget successive .
he , is very proud , and the fair as the same .
however , the the means deal of the , he will be the the focus to table the so .
the difficulties of the c?r?aliculteurs the the West - Conformity waiting the one answer to the Prime Minister
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I have a question supplementary to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the Prime Minister Romanow the summer advised , the my opinion , the not . invest more in a bad program .
i believe the result that the answer given by the Leader of the government . d?douane not the last .
the Saskatchewan souhaiterait that the Prime Minister begin by being indicate that the question of concern .
a moment statement convaincrait the people of the province . the Canada takes the heart of interest .
then , he will show that the the disciplining will affect .
the the Order , we have had a " and address nobles the the ministers and other members , but the Prime Minister . in the chamber . the one priority .
if the Leader of the government . the m?prend the the death future of the Prime Minister , then the best . the the so that the the opportunity to l . is the us to a sign tangible .
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I am somewhat , in The with the approach generous the the senator to the respect to the Prime Minister of the Saskatchewan . " no am not a layman the Canadian the , but it . " that the provinces have been the the institution . the criteria .
he is the in a process and the the employee of a program joint .
he is true that the program . operating not as it is the .
we have discussed the that this and the Canadian and places .
the program . is not also effective that he the should and the Minister of the Agriculture , said that the shortcomings should be addressed and corrig?es .
the senator Tkachuk :
a government . coalition !
the senator Boudreau :
i do I do the numbers in hand , but I am remind the third , the government . the Saskatchewan was reduced the way important , the scope in the area of the Agriculture .
these reductions were the the Order of 60 ?70p. per the ten years .
i think that he was out of the least , that the the motion be the d?bloquer the the fund .
the government , the work 170 million . $ the the program .
if the program was provided a financing of generous , the government , would have the the the not going not actually these 170 million . $ the least , the Prime Minister Romanow not cost of $ 2,500 .
it would have enjoyed with the program joint .
the government , not in the way . .
the Prime Minister Romanow not the not expected a financing and the not the not offered the other funding to my knowledge .
the senator Andreychuk :
as my mother the say , the not r?pare not a inequity by a place inequity .
if the Prime Minister Romanow not the not the the the right to the the not the the the the numbers , the not . not a sorry to the Prime Minister of the Canada .
he is responsible to the respect to the the country .
we have the Canadian a signal the Canadian the Canadian the Prime Minister and the human the other for the the people whose that the problems of the Saskatchewan , substantial and that he does the , really .
it would the one quite a the latest the fate of the people of the Saskatchewan , the future . agony .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I understand the concern raised by the senator Andreychuk .
i am sure that is up the Italian the farmers . the Prairies concern the Prime Minister .
as I , I have the the past , I will certainly do the " the Prime Minister and the the Minister of the Agriculture the the discussions , the in the in this chamber .
the Foreign Intergovernmental
the Ontario , The Act , the restructuring regional - Government pledged the the power legal the Canadian city of Ottawa
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , the board City of Ottawa . discussed and passed yesterday , would defer to the province of the Ontario , run record bilingual the city of Ottawa , will created the year next .
the one , The in the newspaper - gers today , the Canadian new accommodation not be not the right to the privatization bilingual .
in the , a decision of the Court Superior the the Ontario would foetus , in 1986 , in the case of Kapuskasing , the this city . was not the right or the power to the privatization record bilingual .
this is therefore , the Moores in the mare !
the one of the Canadian law 25 , habilitant the restructuring of the new accommodation the Ottawa , is called the Canadian . .
i commend the Canadian law contains essentially and reclassification the arts the Ottawa record bilingual the French and the English .
the province would bring that the new provision the will elected , in November 2000 , will the power to decide the the status linguistic the Canadian new quoted the Ottawa .
the Minister can the the us that if the Prime Minister of the Ontario role in the issue in this matter . knowing very well , the new quoted the Ottawa . " no , declare record bilingual , with the equality of the rights in English and the French ?
the Minister can the the government . the the the cherchera the make clarification this issue , the legal and to the " the uncertainty and the Canadian confusion size by the decision Mr. Harris ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the question raised by the Honourable Senator Gauthier . was reaching the my attention to bring today , the
i have been I shall the the subject .
the new municipality , as all the municipalities the Canadian province and , in the , the the country , provincial and the pervasive the the government provincial and the limits the Canadian law provincial .
it ; the authority in the part constitutional .
this authorize the motion cheap by a bill provincial .
the following my knowledge and my information , the new municipality the Ottawa , as the other municipality the Canadian province of the Ontario , not the United the federal or the authority , in order to the bill , radical the municipalities , for the seat bilingual .
he is a bill , Ontario , the benefit of the in French , the " and municipalities the quality some of bilingual by HRM City .
in the , the municipality the Whole that the the services will services in the two languages in a case , in the other .
however , it is the giving not the right to the seat record city bilingual .
the " the said that is the Canadian province of the Ontario , holds . the .
the former city of Ottawa , if I can the call the , the knowledge , under the this bill and the regulations municipal to provide the the services bilingual .
the " the bloodstream that these services bilingual remain in the date , the the Canadian and regulations municipal suddenly that the
whether the Canadian new accommodation the Ottawa will record bilingual provincial and the only within the Canadian province of the Ontario .
the Honourable Serge Joyal :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government and the Act , the question .
when I have had the opportunity to take the honourable the the Senate . week , our colleague , the senator Grafstein , the subject of the possibility that the government , recoure the Hon. authority on the board regional the Canadian capital national or the the power to cancellation .
i was the opinion that the second proposal . would not the welcome as the choice .
yesterday , the Minister of the Foreign Intergovernmental the said : "
we must be the average constitutional the us begin to help to deal of the in the circumstances current .
the the newspaper The Toronto Star the day , the Canadian and experts the Canadian Constitution feel that the government , the front the belief the one ' s , acting Supreme the the Canada relative in the years 60 and the borrowing the power to legislate when he is a the issues related to the capital national .
the Leader of the government to the Senate ask the " the Minister of the Justice and prosecutor General of the Canada , the in order to the decision of the Court Supreme the the Canada , the government , the authority the power General of court on the the issues related to the the problems national , there was the Canadian capital national , for the Canadian the new accommodation the Ottawa . city bilingual ?
the senator Boudreau :
i am sure that all the honourable senators preference that is up the government in the part of a response clear the Canadian province of the Ontario to the seat the capital national record bilingual .
the government has indicated that he analysis of choice possible .
no decision . the more . taken to this regard .
the person , expect that the Prime Minister Harris and the government interviendront the way valid .
if the I am sure that I can refer the request of the Honourable Senator Joyal and to the the Minister appropriate to the committee also on this opportunity to the not . not have the the study .
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , the senator has asked the question that I had the head .
the status of town bilingual a one of the the the Anglican the services bilingual the Ottawa .
Ottawa , the capital of our nation , the message a message clear across the the country . , a refugee bilingual .
i stress with which the the status of town bilingual a more than the Anglican the services in French .
the senator Boudreau :
i thank the Honourable Senator the the comment .
the this regard , the municipality not the not the power .
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , my question Supplementary the question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
i have asked a question to the senator Joyal , the subject of the power to repeal .
he has answered and I have been in found that the power to repeal the summer used regularly to the the , the $ a quarantine the years .
i believe that the the motion piece of into the
he is the the point of the constitutional the this issue , but it is still provided in the Constitution .
the Leader of the government to the Senate may , he does the the Hill General of the Canada , the Gwich extremis , the the view , many of the us that the the case in this situation , the power to repeal the or not be adopted to a measure legislation which , the country , the not concorde not with leXXIe century and the Canada ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am sure that the Hill General analysis now , the solutions possible , could be operated .
no - and they not a a solution privileged .
the option privileged , the motion that the government and the Prime Minister of the Ontario hold .
i verrai the the the this thing that the absence the the Hill General .
the Honourable Marcel Prud ' s
honourable senators , for six years , the Senate and at age of the House of the House , I have enough clear expressed my position on the the motion prepared the Canada .
in the country , he is the one capital .
some of clowns the capital national , I , what the capital federal because the the motion of institution federal .
if the capital national the right to mirror the history and the diversity of our country , the Honourable Senator Hays the the Alberta , the Honourable Senator Prud Prud ' and the other be the , wherein the the comfortable .
i have a approach different .
i will be to the excuse the question of the will speak to a group of the Parliament torontois , the Friday p.m. January , the the heart , the the Parliament provincial .
all the honourable will speak collectively , some of Hitler the seaway legal and the other , looking at persuade .
finally , we should be that the the Canadian that we do yourself not the all the cities that bilingual .
this is a place debate .
we should be censured clear - and I cannot grateful to the Minister of the sincerity words , the above - that he is the one difference between the debate on the capital federal and all the other matters .
this is a debate . " the distinct .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I say , the honourable senators , as I , I have mentioned the same , the the words , ?loquents the Canadian . , I could the make rereading .
the the point of the views , the the subject to the intrinsic a number of the things .
first , the honourable taking . " the serious this matter , an a public capital for our country .
second , the not . not a question of debate partisan .
the honourable the the two sides of the House of the growers . - that the I think that we have demonstrated far the the not to a not the one issue of debate partisan .
third , it to this city in the the it is the capital national or , as the the senator , the capital federal .
i have expressed my point of the Act , the and I assure the the make .
the opinions of the honourable senators , the turbulence and the " to the the serious .
i am sure that the government to share .
the Honourable rald - A .
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
if a study is the by the Hill General of the Canada , the status bilingual the Canadian capital of the Canada , not we , we not also to the article 16 , the Constitution the direct the capital of the Canada and also the power r?siduel the the Parliament Canadian , the the article chapter , in order comes some powers are tremendously and recognized by the jurisprudence to the region . the capital national the the Canada .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the Hill General is the so that senior counsel of the government . the Canada .
as the smaller . lawyer appropriate , it deals the options and the present a series of the government in hoping that no - the options not be necessary and that the problem . dreaming words .
i am confident the suggestion the importance of the remarks of the Honourable Senator the Deputy the Hill General .
i am sure that it will all the options available , as the lawyer conscientious the smaller the the name of a client .
the Honourable Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , my question . question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the government . the situation and the the requirement of the government . Woodson Ottawa record bilingual , this along computer - it . the principle of equality to the words of the status official , there was the equality the the plan of the rights and Orders , and the only on the Canadian the language ?
the question to the " the .
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the entire clearly , the unrest the the status fully bilingual would clarified by the court .
i rise to release , only to the respect to the Honourable Senator Finestone , but also the the other honourable senators , are define the the subject .
the Transportation
the agreement on the border the the Pearson airport the Halifax - Conformity obligation of the government , the control of Nature acide the the ardoise
the Honourable J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , my question to the Leader of the government to the Senate is suscit?e by the concerns expressed the the arrangement of the government . the Canada and the border interim the the Pearson airport the Halifax , will record of full responsibility of the Pearson , February .
the bandwagon concerned a problem , the " is that I thought , the summer instructed to the beginning of the negotiations .
my question the Act , the the need be taken regularly to control of Nature acide the the ardoise the the Pearson and the controversy .
as the Minister of the , the Pearson , told the one Hill the the the water inch in the small issuing , the the person to the " We dangers .
the Minister has the release with the officials of the new port of the Pearson to the subject of this issue of the respect to the people feel that the authorities federal , revenues the their feet ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , I am the the armed the Canadian the the talking the Honourable Senator .
these negotiations . negotiations as all negotiations .
the Shipping the the two sides , the motion delighted delighted .
the displaced his position , the fact , the air .
i have heard the the officials of the board a?roportuaire , the people have agreed and signed the agreement .
i do think that the the fact , et , the summer signed .
the senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , he is therefore right to the 1,010 $ $ the people were submitting to take the the government corrective are still the Canadian the agreement , the , as the the claims , the federal , continue to the responsibilities the responsibility of the damage the murder of acuity the the future , and that this issue . was resolved ?
is the the right to a settlement to this regard . in the and that if someone that was determined , the would the date and the mid - February , when the decision in benefits becomes official ?
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , as the I , far , the agreement covers the the issues such as the Handbook APPF and the responsibility of the cost of operating , there was the the are linked to the Environment .
the importance , the motion that the agreement that the board and the Department of the Transport and signed tabled the issues and that , the question , the the not the not been amended been the the board of the signing .
i am sure that , as the motion of the in all negotiations , the agreement . contains not . the the independents the board and contain the the the the the Department of the Transport was prepared to play .
however , as the I , far , the two parties have signed a wide final the rule of the occasions , the Honourable Senator .
i know , he and sleeping the Canadian satisfaction of all , but it . rule .
he has been signed by the two parties .
the senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , the Minister . is therefore not in the Canadian we say , the 1,010 $ $ by year will available to take the government corrective to the
i am sure that is the that the in the the things , the time at the
the senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , this moment meeting , the place . there has three weeks or more .
the so that I am hounding , the amount of 8,700 $ $ the use the problem . problem is Ramsay in the agreement .
i v?rifierai the data for the number of the the I mentioned , but I am recall , specifically , the when I have met the group , the agreement was the Prohibition .
it does the all the issues and I do believe that the " that signing this agreement for the .
the Aboriginal Peoples
the Canadian response to the report of the committee on the former Veterans aboriginal
the Honourable A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I commend the government . the answer to time appropriate to the report of the committee Special the the Senate on the safety and the services of security .
we consacrons the long hours to the drafting of our special , this place and the government to consult often to develop the political government .
however , when we , we expect 1.4 the answer to us we demand?e the the report of the committee on the the Aboriginal Peoples the the former Veterans aboriginal ?
the senator Fairbairn was Leader of the government to the Senate to the time , the introduction of the report .
it is the accountability that we , recevrions , the government . newspaper .
the Canadian and former Veterans aboriginal are predicting been the introduction of the report .
the answer to the government is extremely important to those who remain in life .
he is balanced the not . forget the people who have the their lives in calling for the country security .
when receive the us to answer to the government ?
the Honourable J . Bernard Boudreau ( Leader of the government . "
honourable senators , the motion of the time that the door this issue of my attention .
i will bring with the Minister responsible and try to obtain a response to the question of the Honourable Senator .
i the information probably the the years of the medical and I should be the the specific the Canadian resuming the the Senate .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I regret , but the period of the issues . the fragments .
on business orders
bill to the Canadian ambassador No. 3 to 99 - 2000
third reading
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the motion . " that he is that time enough to time , the reading of the reading of the report and the third reading of the bill to the C - 21 , it is the fishing the look a last eyes the the bill to the .
i attirerais the attention of the honourable senators , the fact that is the Canadian law . This : " Act to Her the Queen Majesty the credits to the board public federal , the fiscal the closing the 31 March 2000 . .
the article 6 , the Canadian page 3 , the bill to the Constitution that :
... - ... the motion that the signatures a credit arising the Canadian , the or the entire other legislation and expected to the Journals 2 , the images of the fiscal following the to which he is assigned ... - ...
otherwise , the the article 6 , the bill to the underlying the cultivation of the Estimates post?rieurement the the 31 March 2000 .
in the 286 Parliamentary the precincts , 6e edition , he is the " the page 258 a description of the Senate . the subsides and Means and means .
the Canadian Jewish the Fourth the , the the comment 933 , we can refer :
a budget of spending . the subject of information to the Parliament , proposals budget and extra - backs of the government to the fiscal the coming .
honourable senators , the article 6 , the bill to the problem a problem .
there has the " it is explanation than that the us to share a member of our committee , the Finance Finance the the consideration of the Canadian law , asked ?
the Honourable Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I thank the Honourable Senator Kinsella , his question .
if I understand , the the question . Comeau the the fact that a credit , chevaucher two million .
the the one mentioned that the years , were the the committee , we have been the review the in detail .
i think that the same thing . is produced in the case of the last bill to the Canadian ambassador and that the senator Bolduc the then raised the question .
i believe that the answer to the Department was that the credit the summer grappling in a single year , but that the Estimates , ?tendraient the two years .
if we talking the Canadian , something - and I believe that the us that the said , colon that is not the not came to this was the air of becoming a practice a little more competitive , because of the complexity and the Canadian size of these supply .
i hope that I have answered the Canadian . the the senator , but I am interested in the the case , in detail .
i the said , a part of the question of the senator I was escaped .
the senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , here , with the following the principle .
the Canadian page 31 , the bill to the , the Journals 2 the said :
the following the Estimates Supplementary the the Estimates ( A ) the 1998 - 2000 , the amount awarded is the 234 733 521 $ , the the total of the amounts of the Post of the budget sub the Canadian , appendix .
the Journals 2 add said :
we awarded the Canadian , the " Queen Majesty to the fiscal the closing the 31 March 2 per , making be imput?es the the fiscal the years and the the fiscal following the closing the 31 March and for cows they are awarded .
it is particularly the Agency the the Customs and the the income of the Canada , but the situation there bel and the and the need to ask if the " the well , consider a moment practice .
i do wish to the authority to rule of this regard , but the committee , the Finance Finance criteria , to the fact that the vote a credit , the be spent in the most later , 31 March 2000 .
the senator Cools :
i am interested in funding to the senator Kinsella , our committee , and I can look the chairman , the senator Murray , consider this issue and the Standing the in detail .
if the arrival seems r?current , we should seek the knowledge why .
i rise to criticism and the opinion of the senator . " the serious and I am confident the " means of this matter .
honourable senators , yesterday , in my remarks to the reading of the second reading of the bill to the C - 21 , I have given the the details internal the Canadian substance of the bill to the .
the senator Murray , the Canadian the committee , the Finance Finance , the way of the the debate and we , release of the information . appropriate and d?taill?es .
i should however add , measure - figue , measure - grapes , but with great the courage however , the I have thought yesterday that is the Canadian law was ralli? the consensus of the honourable , the the last felt the have enough and very seriously into the the the one . was examined the right and properly form .
the result , in my good of Deputy - chairman of the committee , and the door - speaking of the government in this matter , I am indeed yesterday and I have asked the leave of the Senate . It the one day , piled the Canadian third reading of the bill to the .
honourable senators , the bill to the credit to be well consideration .
i thank the one time , Senator Lynch - Staunton , because he was the duty of the Canadian the Opposition and remplissait the role of a way that we refer all .
in addition , he remplissait the duty of Senator .
this obligation . particularly important because of constitutional authority to the Senate . role constitutional the the respect to the bills of the Canadian ambassador and the bill to the " the study the the power to spend a very strong $ the money .
i thank the new and honourable senators , I would wish to all of Joyeux l .
i am grateful the the fact that we reach all doctoral .
( the motion is agreed and the bill to the , read a third time , is passed . )
bill to the Canadian 99 to the implementation of inclusion of Tax Conventions
third reading
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Hervieux - Payette , P , seconded by the Honourable Senator Gauthier , seconded the Canadian third reading of the bill to the S - 4 , the Republic of the one would , the the conventions and the the protocoles agreements of the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgarian , the Portugal , the Ouzb?kistan , the Jordan , the Japan and the Luxembourg , in the Canadian avoid the Republic Republic and the prevention the avoidance tax . the Canadian tax on the income .
the Honourable John Lynch - Staunton ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I thank the senator Cools the the consent Alaska , the I appreciate looking .
the senator Andreychuk the fact yesterday , good presentation the the concerns concerning the bill to the S - 4 , the place .
as his comments were the well peaceful , I am happy . short .
the the risk of clarifying some of the comments , I wish simply highlight that the the fact , the Canadian the debate .
honourable senators , he is very irregular that a bill to the Act , Chile tax take as the time .
i believe that is the because the us we now trend the move the the aspect fiscal the the treaty the one of the rights of the human .
this is a thing the reason , insistera , I , will , with the years .
the government . " blame the the - the to the public particular , we have brought to the bill to the , because the Hon. Tab the breffage was off .
the Tab the breffage to the the bill to the was the one of the best , if the best , the I ever been witness .
i wish congratulate the authors of the Tab the have made a moment for the most of the int?ressaient the the bill to the .
honourable senators , we have given the the years , beat the the Leader Deputy of the government , we have persisted for the the bill to the Senate referred to the committee , the business foreign , the the crib - to just as the the time , that the to the the Senate referred to the committee , the Banking , as the was the court .
the Leader Deputy the then , and the openness the duration that the bill to the Senate referred to the two committees .
this was a little fun and leaves the the time , that , but , r?trospectivement , I believe that takes the summer a year shareholders .
the committee , the Banking , examined the conventions tax they , the , and the committee , the business foreign the motion interested in particular , the country Kelleher - to a country . the - and the Canadian the the the Canada , in his political foreign , was Grattan the consideration of the Canadian and the Canadian the human to determine his relations with some countries .
i believe that these projects the bill should not be removed the the committee , the business foreign because the , the most of the , the discussion respecting the the conventions tax ups on the country . - the private that the Canadian psyche the the conventions .
these past . the rather similar .
they are depleted the Republic of double taxation and the avoidance tax .
this is that the us we effor?ons the basis , the one of the Canadian the Ouzb?kistan , a country which the record , rather mitig? .
i do repeat not the the I have already said in the the debate . second reading , but it is the not a country with which I wish to the the business or the I wish visit in the state of the the things .
the answer to us we obtenue not . not very appropriate , the the least for me .
a the the witnesses heard by the committee , the business foreign was the Senior the the rights of the human , the the business humanitarian and the the equality of the women in the world , the the Department of the Foreign Affairs and the the International Covenant .
the answer . was the following :
the one point of the Canadian , the Canada . is not a partner enough healthy to come to the only a country . change its substantially , the Canadian Human the Canadian Human the the awesome the the sanctions violation .
the Canadian and sanctions multilateral , tested not have not always particularly effective .
it has also said that , the " now , the Canada . was collected that the sanctions d?cid?es by the United Nations .
he is the many of r?alisme in this point , but it is the so , I , I , fear , a renoncement the the principles .
that a country , small and not be the one influence marginale - that the not . not the case of the Canada - the the the some principles , he not be not fulfill the the end of the prior and the the respect .
this is that the us attempting to obtain the the committee and the the officials of the Foreign Affairs .
yesterday , the senator Taylor the requested if we we m?langer rights of the human and Commerce .
i do does not the point of the .
some people believe that the commitment is the key .
i believe that the spotlight and the boycotts can be more of the .
the that , the motion of Government urgently notional to the time .
as the senator Andreychuk the the fact yesterday , we want only to do upon the , when we concluons the kind treated , we do we not we talk of the look that a 49 distrait the Canadian the Canadian and the Canadian the human in the country . the .
as the senator Grafstein : the importance to the committee , the business foreign , each year , the 251 the state American prepares a compelling thorough the the record of almost all the country . the world . the chapter the the rights of the human .
this analysis is the Canadian , full the the board and the the Congress , the in scope , the their turn .
we do seem not give as the importance to the kind of the in the country .
he not to a not the unique the the the fact , the but rather , using the average available to do take the principles that we have tried to adopt the the the the policy , the rights of the human .
as some of our colleagues , knowing , I had the intent of making the the amendments asking the peculiarities of the Ouzb?kistan the the bill to the , but I believe that I have been am .
after the course , Senator Andreychuk and the other , I acknowledge that he not be not just the the point of the Canadian aid a country . the different and the the p?naliser , the amount of first more of information .
however , now that the question . was raised , I hope that the the government will taken to the when come to time , to the the point of new obligations tax , the officials ceaselessly their analysis , far the Canadian non average of a treaty and that they will the Canadian the record of the country . the Canadian Human the Canadian Human before the Whole the country ' .
the rights of the human not should not be the only on the consideration , but it is some of the northern to the subject of a consideration . minitieuse that the the " he considers now .
the Honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
the senator is the the loan to accept a short question ?
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
the course .
the senator Grafstein :
i am the agreement , principle of the the the the Honourable Senator has said , the subject of the fact that the government . the not speak to the Canadian the human in his political and the Canadian of the privilege intimately these two areas of the " exercise a competitive moral the one of fautif .
the Honourable Senator has the journey , by the , the make laws a resolution to the House of the knowledge , the delegation Canadian the Canadian the OSCE that the Senate . the Canada . is not satisfied the the record of the rights of the human in a country , the next , Ouzb?kistan , and the theme the delegation of suggestion the representations to the OSCE to debate ?
the one hand , ultimately , the concerns , the I share , could be raised in a forum international the , with the Canadian forcefully moral , he would be the rallier the other states the the Province .
the senator Lynch - Staunton :
honourable senators , I thank the senator Grafstein , this excellent suggestion .
it is my was not admitting the the spirit , but I am pleased to the giving the .
the Honourable Andr Hervieux - Payette :
honourable senators , let - I , the the reading of the third reading , a comment on the comments of the Opposition the the Opposition , the Canadian my colleague , the senator Andreychuk .
we do we not the dissension the Canadian . the the principle of the rights of the human ; it is not as the the average to do preliminary the rights of the human that he is the one discrepancy .
in my speech , the reading of the third reading , I have reminded the actions of the CIDA to facilitate the learning of the respect to the rights of the human , the application of the rule of the Canadian , the the telephone the stabilization the Ouzb?kistan .
in the conditions , the bill to the S - 4 is in the public General of the Canada and the the effect , benefit of the benefits of the trade .
he suggests the condition of the citizens of these countries and the same time , he facilitera the advancement of the rights of the human .
when the rights abuses and the floor of the individuals are protected , he is the easily the government . respect to the rights .
i move the adoption of the bill to the S - 4 .
( the motion is agreed and the bill to the motion read a third time and passed . )
bill to the Act , Trade final nisga' the
second reading of Second the the debate
the the one of the honourable the future . Woodson region . the Canada well , the name of British - British , I am very pleased and very proud of sponsor the bill to the C - 9 and the in recommending the adoption .
i the objective with the support of the other senators , the British - British the the side - the Canadian the House , the honourable Perrault and Fitzpatrick , but I hope that , in time appropriate , the the honourable the Canadian British - British the in the .
obviously , I sought the support and the symbolic the the honourable the all the regions of the Canada .
we believe that the bill to the C - 9 allows the the north and that he avivera the desire to negotiate , the the motion essential to the stability social and the the progress economic that gain all the Britannos - Columbians .
the bill to the the us are before marquera the history .
he is that the the , the Canadian better to the Canada , the motion ? " - that the political the the Canadian of hearing , the ways the consensus , the acceptance the diversity , the same the the solutions and the developing the the air .
this bill to the , the comptrollership the effect of Agreement final nisga' the , visitors a place jalon in the negotiating the treaty the the Canada , " era modern .
with the Convention of the despair James and the the North Quebec , the environment , the years 70 and , the recent , with the Convention clear the the Inuvialuit , the Agreement on the land claims of the Nunavut and the Entente - the final with the Indian the the Yukon , the Senate . the privilege of the Canadian and the legislation which unite the Canada , the essence the place . the Aboriginal Peoples in the fabric economic and social the the Canada , and the adverse the new relations positive of the governments and the Aboriginal Peoples .
honourable senators , the Agreement final nisga' the and the bill to the the the comptrollership the effect may be included in the history of the treaty the " era modern .
our role is the look if the bill to the amendments properly the agreement final , such as Saturday by the three parts , and the the credit to be adopted . as the bill .
i believe firmly that is the Canadian law , and the agreement which he is quoted , strong the public . the Canadian , the the motion consistent the Canadian Constitution and the the part legal the the Canada , and that he should be adopted .
the Canadian from the the issues of TAGS , I wish to the the honourable the are the Nisga' status , the people living and how the agreement on their claims land and the bill to the the success of the odd the the Senate to the be discussed .
the Nisga' status live the long - the River Nass in a region respect fix the the North - western the Canadian British - British , per kilometre the the North the Terrace and the Prince Rupert .
moreover , given 500 Nisga' status alive in four villages the long - the River and the Hon. embouchure , only a 125 other people standing roles the land of 7.5 per kilometre square the this Valley .
the only communities organized in the Mackenzie the Canadian Nass are those of the Nisga' status .
the Nisga' status alive in the Mackenzie the Canadian Nass alone the one of the many groups Cultural the the Aboriginal Peoples the Canadian Coast North - Western .
they have a crop complex based on the rich resources of the sea .
historically , the the victims of the other peoples of the West North - Western , the Nisga' status were the great artists , b?tisseurs and tradesmen .
they art rehausse , the looking the many property of their villages , the the trade , the the foreign .
the salmon and the other resources of the Nass their tune food and Evidence wear to their puzzling Social , arts and architecturales .
this , the the Adriatic the Canadian River River , the Depression cultural and arts the the Nisga' status can be admir?es in the Great Galerie the the Museum Canadian of the eventual and a daily recently 72 , the Government bowl common nisga' the " .
the in the Canadian and the Canadian many artwork in the world .
today , the Act 5 500 Nisgas' status , given 500 live Conservatives in four villages :
Kincolith , Greenville , Canyon City and York Aiyansh .
the most of the other Nisga' status live in Terrace , Prince Rupert or Vancouver .
they attachent . the importance to the highest and the the post post .
the Nisga' status . the home arrondissement school , the arrondissement school 92 .
the post will the Canadian tongue the Canadian twelfth and the question to the Nisga' status and the the other residents of the Mackenzie the Canadian Nass .
the members of the board school , the one resident , Nisga' the , are appointed .
the Nisga' status . , and myself the Canadian and services of health , the only the Nisga' status are also represented .
he have before the the opportunities possible . to the control of the education , the the care of health , the the services social and the the services to the families , the Canadian and programs Works , and the movie the new opportunities of strengthening their families and the community .
they have worked , cooperative with their neighbours .
they involved in the government regional scrap are part of the government regional by the through the the former , Harry Nyce , the Senate to the board .
the Nisga' status understanding been the the least 1887 the problem . the people combined the question of the land - for the time when the as the honourable senators , the previous heard , the leaders nisga' s . the their first Methodist to the the Assembly legislation . the British - British to seek the information the recognition of their as aboriginal , a settlement by treaty and a certain self government .
they trip to Victoria , however , infructueux .
in 1890 , they have established their first Committee on the Canadian . the the land .
in 1913 , the committee has sent a petition to the Council Office , in England , for trying to obtain a settlement of the question of the land .
the fault success .
the the years 20 to the the years 50 , the Nisga' status and the other nations have seen their efforts to the recognition of their rights and the their culture r?prim?s .
the collection of the committee to the case of the land claims or the other rights . was cod .
after the ownership of the bill , because of 1955 , the Nisga' status . harmful their committee studying the the land claims .
the Canadian leadership Mr. Frank Calder , the board tribal the matter of court of the question .
this decision r?solue shows the determination of the Nisga' status of the Canadian aid of their rights .
many of the First Nations emissions that the courts . preventing their the , d?truisant , the hope that their rights of claimants in the part of a process policy .
after the rejection of the case , the courts lower , the Nisga' status . brought to the date , the Court Supreme the the Canada .
in 1973 , the Court Supreme the record his decision in the case Calder .
the the road also on the question of the so , Nisga' status conservaient a " aboriginal , it has admitted the possibility that the rights and harassed aboriginal exist , the the Canada .
this decision has many pes? the Canadian decision of the government Trudeau the feasibility a political the negotiating the the land claims that the provinces . the not have been settled .
this is now , we , after a study careful , the make our share to the this reconciliation possible .
the Senate . the the opportunity , the support formulate the principle recommendation that the process of negotiation of the treaty . British - British the floor and necessary .
only the negotiating , the air and the largeur the Province can make an the conclusion , Korea , confident the the interests of all .
we do we advance the with the full whatsoever the all the parties interested .
the Nisga' status . was the one of the first groups , both the the negotiations to the vote of the new process .
the negotiations have got the 1976 .
however , the Canadian holdings the Canadian British - British , he was impossible to advance the Canadian . the the land .
five years after the signing the the agreement the Act , respecting the the negotiations , the government Chr , the government Harcourt and the Nisga' status . did a wide the principle which drawing the major component of the agreement today , the the study .
the agreement of principle has made the subject of debate payments in the opinion and the the legislative legislation . the province .
the principles and unequal the allowable the content and the structure of the negotiations on the agreement final .
two years and shocking the late , the in August 1998 , the government Chr and the government . Glen Clark the paraph? a wide final .
this was a great being and the huge the most of a century of the pers?v?rants the Canadian the Canadian and Nisga' status .
the part of the process , only four governments federal - that the governments Trudeau , Clark , radical and Chr - but also three governments provincial successive .
in addition , the Canadian 500 consultation plubliques and legislatures of information . was held in British - British .
the treaty nisga' the Gallery a step in the long history of the conclusion , Korea with the First Nations , the Canada .
this is the Prime treaty Canadian , thanks the self government , a self the respect to the Canadian and Nisga' status in the part legal the the Canada and the the summer n?goci?e the settlements the Canadian and the Canadian all the Canadian .
in the context , I wish to provide here . statement that the Minister of the Foreign Indian and the the North Canadian , the Honourable Robert D . Nault , the beginning , the 26 October 1998 , the Canadian House of the House , the the years of the debate . second reading .
here is that he has said :
the government is that the self government is , the the victims of the other rights of the aboriginal , whose and belief by the article 35 of the Act constitutional the amending .
as the courts the people reported , he worth more negotiate the rights . the lurch the question . v. the justice , and the motion record is that we have the .
i wish to give a lawyer , the way , none of the nisga' the , because I believe that the agreement shows that the person negotiate the institution . a government aboriginal effective and responsible and Far the the provisions practices the this regard .
the Act , the Agreement final nisga' the and the Agreement final nisga' the purpose of the basis of the nisga' the and the jobs . structure government democratic , lies and effective to the Nisga' status .
the Minister of the Foreign Indian and the the North Canadian . will the the last word in the decisions the character regional .
the the limits important to the self government . the Nisga' status , are down in the Act , the Indian not to apply to the the Nisga' status will the extent of the giving a government , 13,000 their communities and all the members of the nation nisga' the .
i know that our colleague the Canadian Saskatchewan , in the , the senator Tkachuk , the review , in the bill to the S - 14 , the subject of the self government . the aboriginal .
he will see with the other that many of the powers which are powers to the government nisga' the are similar to those who were experienced the the Journals of the former Bill , the S - 14 .
the government nisga' the will be government democratic the the trade , the model Canadian Institute .
the first , all the men and the women nisga' status , earthy the age adulthood will the attention candidates the the election and vote for the representatives of their government .
the example , he must be the the lines guidelines the the mother the interests and the the statutory to the government , the financial , as the motion of the to the other provincial and the Canada .
he must take this responsibility to his own citizens and make the governments of the tirera a part of the fund .
the Constitution nisga' the motion to the heart of the fiscal the one government nisga' the democratic .
this government plan under the the provisions of the Constitution of the Canada .
the treaty states the the conditions specific the Canadian Constitution nisga' the the need be respected .
they not have the coming by no government nisga' the " in the
the treaty contains also the the provisions to the protection of Rights of the other aboriginal and those of the only the Nisga' status , equal in the the land nisga' status .
the Constitution nisga' the right to the recognition and the protection of the rights and the the liberties of the citizens nisga' status and provide the possibility of challenge the medical the the legislation nisga' status .
it is also renfermer the the evidence key , as the the statutory allowing the in abeyance the the decisions administrative and the have access to the information .
the government nisga' the frustration of the issues collegial the Canadian Industrial and the the Heritage the the Nisga' status , but it will very celebrating as the bitter the Canadian and governments of the Canada .
he will and will the trouble and rely responsible for the decisions that he will .
the government Lisims will also responsible to the Prime Opposition the the relationship with the other levels of the .
the four governments of the villages nisga' status composeront the second level of the government nisga' the .
the Treaty nisga' the amount of the Canadian and Nisga' status alive the the foreign the the land nisga' status .
the treaty makes three local urban , the Terrace , Prince Rupert and preventing Vancouver .
they not have not the powers devise but upon the the government nisga' the in electing each of the Canadian the government Nisga' the Lisims .
strictly - we now on the powers devise the the Nisga' status .
the only powers devise that the Nisga' status will have maintained in the treaty .
i wish to remind the the honourable senators , he not there has not the powers devise residence to the Nisga' status .
the legislation federal and provincial the provisions the the land nisga' status , the time that the legislation nisga' status .
it ressemblera the the the the fact , the other territories of the Canada , the Canadian . subject to the legislation federal , provincial , municipale or regional .
in the kind of model , the the rules of priority . the to establish the the will the move the case of conflict or the weakness of two legislation using .
the treaty nisga' the Krever some rules of priority in every case where the government nisga' the will the the powers devise .
the the the legislation nisga' status of using , they must respect to satisfy the priority .
they must be plier the one some of the other requirements .
the first and the first , they must be reviewed the Canadian Constitution of the Canada , there was the Charter Canadian of the rights and Freedoms .
they must be the clinics the Canadian Constitution nisga' the .
honourable senators , I wish to send the the powers that I just the highlight the the subject of the citizenship nisga' the not understand that the right to take the the legislation regarding the Immigration , the citizenship Canadian , the small in the the Indian to the words of the Act , the Indian or the possibility of chickens the the Canada or the Canadian British - British the requirement of quality of the rights and the the benefits .
the the specific . clear in the treaty nisga' the .
finally , he is the the areas where the interests of the other Canadians could be significantly and direct RCMP by the bill nisga' the , but the the public public is respected . in discussing the the authorities local a number of the
in this third cases , the legislation federal and provincial priment the Canadian law nisga' the .
the legislation federal and provincial primeraient , in the areas of the protection of the Environment , the the Order public , the Canadian peace and the Canadian Transportation , the the services of health , the the services social , the the vessels and the the Senate public , the Canadian flow safety and the the Transportation , the Canadian identity of the mariages , the Canadian grain the the events of the whaling and the Canadian fish , and the Canadian regulatory the the sites intoxicantes .
he not the no doubt that the government nisga' the Mifflin in the part legal and legislative Canadian , and the the respect to the Constitution Canadian and the Canadian Charter of the rights and Freedoms .
honourable senators , the Nisga' status shacks in the Mackenzie the Canadian Nass been the the centuries have before the arrival of the Europeans .
we know that their society . " SAR , prosperous and Administration , the the rules of conduct social and the responsibility to the community .
the Main achievement of the treaty . was the integrate the culture and the system of the conditions the the Nisga' status of the culture and the the system of the majority .
as I , I said , the the time , the motion of arrangement practice .
honourable senators , the one of the major objectives of the negotiations the the treaty . British - British is the jobs . the certitudes the the the concerns of Rights of the aboriginal by the " and the Canadian and governments federal and provincial , and the Canadian public Canadian .
the Agreement final nisga' the rest this objective .
he is a definition full and cut - and claims of the Nisga' status the " and the and harassed aboriginal .
the " that agreed , and as it is expected in the bill C C - 9 , these rights will submission namely .
the the future , we reach the extent of using the agreement final to describe specifically the rights of the Nisga' status .
each of the us can use of the final because the the treaty the the the person to the only to the government and the the Nisga' status , but the first , the .
he is important to the groups of business and the groups academia the Canadian British - British that the situation that clear .
the the groups , the the interests , overall that the Canadian wheat and the Congress of the work of the Canada . the knowledge , the committee Standing the Canadian House of the certainty was the Canadian telecommunications . the support the the treaty and the Canadian signing the treaty . General .
the mayor of the city of Terrace , Jack Talstra , the said , the committee Standing :
we join all our best to our neighbours nisga' status .
we , the prior with the treaty .
honourable senators , otherwise , the the need ensure the rights of the aboriginal to ensure a future economic , for the British - British .
the the future , the Nisga' status will the extent of developing the land nisga' status .
the business of the interested in the potential of development economic the the land nisga' status CWB that the Nisga' status are leaving the the land .
this is that the means the text of the preamble of the agreement final the specific that the agreement must suffer a confidence the Canadian ownership and the use of the land and the the resources .
those who is ample the the Agreement final nisga' the murder of the make losing that the
i am the my fellow the Canadian British - British that this is the not acceptable .
a report of public , 1991 , Price Waterhouse convened the Canadian conclusion that the land claims , r?solues the British - British had countless the Canadian province 1 billion . $ the investment and 1 500 jobs in the only areas of the forestry and the the mines .
the cost to the aboriginal is also very high in the Canadian and constraint the the ACLS the people opportunities of development economic .
in generous the one would likely and commercially the all the land nisga' status of the respect to the rights and harassed aboriginal , the Nisga' status receive a settlement the prairies 196,1 million . $ 7 on a period of 15 years and a land of about 2 per kilometre square in the Mackenzie the Canadian Nass , transfer the court the rights of greater and the seaway the the subamendment , acre and also a right to cueillir a part of the quota the salmon the Canadian River Nass and the the animal poses the Canadian initiatives the Canadian Nass .
however , not justified not based on the comments tendancieux the some of law , he is a one transfer , cash the most of $ million . $ .
this is the absolute not the case .
the person neat fully the the potential for the Nisga' status of the Canadian representatives of a lease enable strong ?
the Nisga' status feel that this agreement to give the possibility , through the the efforts that they consentiront and the people within the Canadian become self - the plan economic .
a tribe nisga' the books exercerait a huge the multiplicateur the the whole of the economy . the North - western the Canadian British - British as the record of Bethlehem the Terrace .
the the opinion of some Columbians - Columbians , he explain to allow the the courts the field of the courts on the land claims .
this is a false belief .
he would on?reux and vorace the time , activists the the courts for the year claims of a right to the one as aboriginal to each other , British - British .
in the case Delgamuukw , the Court Supreme the the Canada has spoken of the disadvantages of the use the the courts and supported the Canadian negotiating found the best way of endorsements these problems .
some of the honourable the bombing the - be the the case Delgamuukw is heavy for ten years before the courts and that , in the Canadian n , the Court Supreme the the Canada has ordered the meeting of a new civil .
he remains yet the the uncertainty as the the rights aboriginal the the Gitskan and Wet' suwet' the the were CANBAT the this matter .
the certainty the the intrinsic the the treaty nisga' the critical clear the benefits of the negotiating by the " the use the the court .
the objective of sober default the sole a solution practice and put , the Agreement final nisga' the rules of the Income setting with certainty that the the in the Canadian the property and the the use of the land and gas in the Mackenzie the Canadian Nass .
he is very important to point that the first , is defenders in the part legal Canadian .
the negotiations the the Agreement final nisga' the not had not to the Canadian health and the Canadian and Nisga' status , but rather , to the " the uncertainty , explicitant , the Canadian the Canadian , sets and the most specific possible , all the rights meet the the article 35 that the Nisga' status will operate a time that the Agreement final nisga' the will have concluded .
in the past , the Canada has had a form of certainty in numerous the the rights aboriginal not d?finis , the the rights d?finis derogate the treaty by the use the Canadian and compassionate as the protocol the or the regular the .
the objections the the First Nations , this technical , the Income barrier the narrative Main the Canadian conclusion , Korea modern .
the Agreement final nisga' the order to approach adopted on the " amendment of the rights , the
the the approach refer to the right aboriginal amended , the rights aboriginal the the Nisga' status , there was the CHST , subsistent , but blowing , pursuant to the parameters boundaries and other set in the Agreement final nisga' the .
it has been made possible , the the agreement of the three parts and the the fiscal the the powers devise the the governments federal and provincial .
the then , all the rights aboriginal that the Nisga' the boats the the system of law started will blowing and cognizant the form of the rights set in the Agreement final nisga' the .
the technical to the whole the certainty what is the the acceptance of the rights , the their fingerprints .
if the in spite of the Agreement final and the Canadian Act , the Agreement final nisga' the , he is a right aboriginal from the the rights of the article 35 of the nation nisga' the principles in the Agreement final nisga' the or the the attributes are different , the right to abolish the Middle the Canadian date of entry , into the Canadian law .
in order to the new approach to the respect to the rights aboriginal , the only rights . have the Nisga' status , under the the article 35 would have set in the Agreement final .
honourable senators , I think that we can see the air , the Income and the 251 the the different things , the the basis of negotiation of Congress modern and r?alisables the the respect to questions difficult .
the fact that the business , the groups who have the the interests in the resources , the governments local and the unions support the new model of the rights shows that the " the government , the people interests of the table of the negotiations .
many detractors and nowhere the the Agreement final nisga' the feeling that the be involved , the facts .
the the place . that , they d?forment the truth to do vibrer the the Depression sensibles the view of reflection a response why the Canadian the Canadian the public .
the honourable are the the armed the the the the motion of the the other place where the Opposition official , the Liberal Party , the tried to the make .
honourable senators , a the the criticism virulent the the treaty . the Opposition the the Opposition official in British - British , Mr. Denise Campbell .
this last , preferring said in the memory the the committee Standing the the other place :
the people of British - British want to the treaty the concilient the rights of the Aboriginal Peoples protected by the Constitution with the path of the Crown .
they want negotiate the the regulations because the that is preferable the Canadian and regulations mobile by the the courts .
honourable senators , the motion exactly what the us we have the
Mr. . Campbell claims that the Act , the Agreement final nisga' the Land a new order to the " the Canada and that , by virtue , he is a change the Canadian Constitution , the be worthy the Canadian public . the British - British by way of polls the the system of the bill provincial and into the Canadian to the approval of the majority .
he has magazine a plan to do speak to courts and the information . Tax .
the parties to the agreement and the constitutional the people before the Canadian hearings identify feel that the assertion Mr. Campbell not the no backbone constitutional .
i wish provide the new the Minister of the Foreign Indian and the the North Canadian , the in the ability to the other place . 26 October the , the said :
the Agreement nisga' the motion of a great importance and the important to point that he has been signed in the part constitutional present the the Canada .
the Agreement nisga' the motion of arrangement practice which " and the the Canadian nation nisga' the exercera the the words of the article 35 of the Act constitutional the amending .
these rights will certainly protected in order departure , 35 , but it is meant not the people will absolus .
the courts have borne that these rights to be enfreints if it is relevant .
honourable senators , the treaty nisga' the specific . the following :
the Agreement . duty not the Constitution of the Canada , including the distribution of the powers between the Canada and the British - British .
the lines November , then , the dean Peter Hogg and the professor Patrick Monahan , the Canadian Faculty of the Osgoode Hall , t?moignaient the the committee Standing the the other place , the professor Monahan the said : "
therefore , in large , my position is that lesparagraphes 35 ( 1 ) and 35 ( 3 ) the Canadian Constitution elongated specifically the process , is the gap the the d?rouler , the knowledge that a wide is signed between a people aboriginal , the government , and / or a province .
the way , the professor Monahan add :
it is meant not the the agreements in itself are part of the Constitution of the Canada , but rather than the rights , in clauses are protected and that the bill , federal or provincial , the would happen to the rights derogate the the treaty will satisfy the the criterion the excuse set the the courts , a right sufficient by the article 35 is violated , although the the summer set in the case Sparrow .
in summary , honourable senators , no in the bill C C - 9 . the Canadian less influence on the distribution of the powers guaranteed the the government , and the the provinces , the Constitution Canadian .
they could legislative remains Mifflin .
he not the no doubt that this issue will affect a day , the the authorities , higher plac?es that the the I just the context .
the complaint also to the bill to the Canadian be based on the race .
the example , the doctor barons Martin , MP Reform of Esquimalt - Juan the Fuca the actions in a section parule 24 November 99 in the daily The Ottawa Citizen :
we precedent a feeling of aggressive and the the cruellest the voters the Africa , the South the the time , the winds .
in the same , the the sustainable . the following :
he must also there have a bill to all .
however , the the years of the hearing the I have formal . " the time , the professor Bradford Morse , the Canadian Faculty of the Canadian the University of Ottawa , the said :
the question fundamental the imposition the well , the criticism , the motion that the aboriginal not have not recognized as a group separate the Constitution of the race , but , as the courts Supreme the the United - United the the failure clear to again again , the the least 170 years , some people facilities their own territories have the the time imm?moriaux , in the the First CPAs , their own systems legal , cultural , religious , language and political - that the amendments to difference as mere political , and the as set raciaux .
honourable senators , the rights set the the Nisga' status , under the the article 35 of our Constitution . partnerships the their presence before the arrival of the Europeans in the Mackenzie the Canadian Nass , and the Act , the reasons Knee , as some of the left to the
this independence government thought of the rights partnerships the Canadian presence before the arrival of the Europeans and it is carefully designed to the the rights and the interests of the other Canadians , in particular those who live in the region immediate , that 70 properly .
all the rights , the property private are fully protected .
all the rights , the property existing the Canadian and land nisga' status agreements the subject of Queen imports or navy .
all the legislation federal and provincial the provisions , there was the legislation provincial the not to remove not in the reserves Indian .
otherwise , the the , will the Canadian Telecom to the wife nisga' the , by the , the not to remove not now that the Act , the Indian and the system of the reserves Indian .
the result , he is the in the attempt opportunities of terrorism the the opinions the all the issues substantielles .
the same , the process of consultation the motion proposes revealed be the most exhaustive and effective the entire the history of the treaty the the Canada .
in the memory , Denise Campbell the so that makes the matters the concerns related to the equality in the treaty nisga' the " , leaving the the Canadian rule of the not be not application uniform?ment the all the people of the British - British and that those of the not be not include the " the trade , the Canada .
the point recommendation that all the people of the British - British have stellar the same rights . 24 , the the provisions Constitutional the treaties the the rights particular , some groups .
this point of the nierait the the Nisga' status all the rights derogate the treaty and the " to the the the not be not there have the rights aboriginal .
in addition , the point of the existence all the other rights particular protected by the Constitution as the rights of the minority , the rights , the education and the rights language .
honourable senators , the Nisga' status . should not have the regular the their culture and the their language to live in our great country .
he is possible , the the Canada , the be the Canadian , aboriginal and the .
the time . " everything not the deal with the the issues raised by the treaty historic the the right to the self government . a people aboriginal is , for the first time , recognized by the Parliament , under the the article 35 .
the well , the ways , the rights of the only the Nisga' status alive in 1898 nisga' the are am?lior?s by the Elimination of the restrictions cut by the Act , the Indian .
in the Canadian taxation , the Nisga' status . agreed , in short , the their people paying the the tax as all the other Canadians , a certain the .
meanwhile the their development economic , the Nisga' status assumeront a responsibility growing the their own funding .
they expect with keen the power to liberate the Canadian Foundation financial .
honourable senators , I have the host the us 4:35 the debate on the bill to the C - 9 .
i believe that , when we , we examined the TAGS , we , speaking with enthusiasm .
i believe that Terry Glavin , a member of the Pacific Renewal Resource Conservation Rehabilitation , the Canadian British - British , the very well summary the situation , he has made the parolele 17 November the committee , fellow the Canadian British - British and the said :
i do not . the Canadian vast majority of the Confederation , evoked approach the objective of the conclusion , with the First Nations , the treaty the members forward and reasonable and the people honour to the Crown .
the way , he has said :
in turn of ?pilogue , honourable senators , I wish to point that some senators here today , the role of the fiftieth the the public . the committee Joint the Canadian House of the House and the the Senate on the Constitution . 1980 - 1981 , the the government . the hearings and discussed the the the motion become the Act constitutional the amending .
this was a period historic the the years of the Canadian Charter of the rights , the patriation of the Constitution and the many other matters important , the dream , change the nature of the Canada , and the right of the the best , the my opinion .
the article 35 the midst the provisions important to the resolutions to the time , that the
a number of the honourable and the House of ?prouv? a great emotion when the Minister of the Justice of the time , Jean Chr , the Canadian pressure huge the the committee Joint , the recipient , the the name of the government Trudeau , the state of the 35 to the Constitution .
the bill to the C - 9 a the one of the major results of our efforts of the time .
the committee Joint was co by agreeing the senator Harry Hays and the one fringant member of the Quebec , became been the fringant Senator Joyal .
i exiled , the government to the Senate , while the the former senator Duff Roblin prime the Opposition .
the one of the members standing of the other place , the attendance was copy was Eymard Corbin , today , Senator .
that the " I pardonne if I have forgotten the highlight the the the Senate to the Senate , the years , the committee to the Canadian member Standing .
in closing , I will participant that a Senate , some of the members rely , the 20 years of experience has certainly a contribution to the changes in the Canadian political government .
the Honourable rald - A .
honourable senators , this agreement - because he is a well , a wide , and the Canadian a treaty - is subject to the Constitution , the Canadian Charter of the rights and the the Code offence .
it is much .
my only concern , and the - be the - that the review the in full , the , the policy , the skills prosper the the respect to the primacy of the Nisga' status .
it is a precedent , in the meaning that , in the system federal Canadian , he is the share of the powers between the federal and the provinces .
the , the primacy is exerc?e tests by the Parliament of the Canada , doctors , the Bloc raced provincial .
the system basically . " .
i have heard that the - and you , corrigerez if I am wrong , in some cases , the the fact competition to the primacy not . the federal or federal or provincial and that is the - be the the the , the Canadian the flou that the in the agreement .
in the extent the the agreement . duty not the share of the powers between Ottawa and the provinces , I am satisfied .
is the the the case ?
the senator Austin :
i wish thank the senator Beaudoin the the question .
as I , I said in my speech , he is the one clause particular , specifically , this agreement . an in this is telling the the powers between the Canada and the British - British .
the , he is the the article 35 perpetuate the rights meet in this agreement .
these rights receive a protection constitutional , but it is one of this is telling the the powers .
the Constitution , except the the agreement between the government , and the provinces , protects the rights of the aboriginal a time that the Parliament and the British - British the convention the agreement to the way of a bill .
the senator Beaudoin :
i do I overlooked no problem with the article 35 , because he give the the rights actions the the aboriginal in the Constitution of the Canada .
i am , the fact , the Canadian . rights , because of Aboriginal were here , first .
my question the just the Canadian Domination the one power by the " a place when the the powers are immunities concurremment .
when the bill to the will definitely by a committee , I hope that the chair this issue . in full .
the rest of the agreement . " questions any issue .
the senator Austin :
i want to await this study .
the senator raises a point essential .
i suppose that the some cases , the powers of the Council tribal nisga' the will Domination , particularly in the the concerns of Rights language and Cultural .
however , they are still issues . the criterion the the character reasonable set in the Supreme Sparrow , because this case , the Canadian our right constitutional .
the Honourable Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , I have listened carefully the speech , the senator and a the my questions the Act , quota the salmon keynotes in the River Nass .
however , he is the one way , which the Minister and the Crown can give the the quota the fishery , the the article 7 , the Act , the fishery .
the government can the jobs . the reserves exclusives the fishery , the the motion belonging in the treaty nisga' the .
as the the specific in the article 7 , it is the make a the adoption of a measure legislation valid .
the treaty the one duty of Fisheries exclusive the will then prot?g?e the Constitution of the article 35 of the Constitution .
the result , the parliamentary c?deront their power legislative dealing the distribution of this whereas common .
the one of the first time , the history , the the parliamentary off the one , the projected in the Constitution , the protection a precious public .
the n?gociateurs the - they the fact , this aspect or you , you have a " a meeting of information to the subject ?
the senator Austin :
honourable senators , I do I would the not also , prepared to the senator Comeau the review the the stadium - the the consequences exact the the licensing of the duty of Fisheries .
i know that the Act , the fishery and the regulations aff?rents the municipal the the potato the Constitution of the Agreement nisga' the .
a plan of Fisheries annual must be introduced and , as the the said , honourable senator Comeau , the Nisga' status . a wide providing a right to a part specific the Canadian crop . fish .
the my opinion , you hand , better response to your the years , discussions , the .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
my question . question to the senator Austin .
the article 35 of the Act constitutional the amending from the fair , the GST 1 , 34 the future of Charter of the rights and Freedoms .
is the the right to say that the Charter of the rights and Freedoms . the GST not to the article 35 , but that the Constitution of the treaty , the Charter of the rights and Freedoms the rate ?
the fact , I believe that the Charter the GST , under the this agreement , the the authority , the great protection in a perspective of Rights of the human that a measure the not directly to the the article 35 ?
the senator Austin :
the senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , the the time , begin the debate on the principle of the bill to the , I wish clarification the rights . facilities the Indiennes the Constitution of the bill to the C - 31 , the amendment to the Act , the Indian the the signatory the rule 12 ( 1 ) b ) the the former Bill the the Indian .
some members . the " right to r?version . "
this right is the the economic , under the the Agreement nisga' the , or the is the the Canadian a more , or the one of the protection for the women who would reintegrating the community nisga' the ?
the senator Austin :
honourable senators , I do then answer to this issue . in terms worry , in saying that the the the Canadian Charter the GST and that the Charter banned the discrimination , I believe that the rights of the women nisga' status are now citizens . the Canadian , the other women Canadian .
the royal Assent
notice
the Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that he has received the communication next :
the 16 d 99
Mr. the Speaker ,
i have the honour to you reporting that the very hon. Antonio Lamer , Justice in the Canadian the Court Supreme the the Canada , in his capacity of Governor General Acting , the forefront the Canadian House of the Senate today , the the 16 d 99 , the 17 at the order to give the Royal Assent to some legislation . the .
the Honourable - Speaker of the Senate Ottawa
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , as you , you have you , the fact , I have the reading , the motion of Justice in the outgoing the disease here is subject .
this will the last Assent Royal before the other , retirement and , the question , the last Assent Royal the the millennium .
i hope that all the honourable senators will attend the Canadian regulatory the will continue to the honour to the Krever , Chief of the outcome of the Royal Assent .
the Act , the Parliament of the Canada
bill to the Second - Second Reading - Debate the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Grafstein , seconded by the Honourable Senator Callbeck , seconded the Canadian second reading of the bill to the S - 5 , the Act , the Act , Parliament of the Canada ( poet official of the Parliament ) . - (
the Honourable Senator Hays ) .
the Honourable Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , the senator Grafstein know that I do I do much of enthusiasm to the bill to the .
however , I , I recognizing the have before the Senate . the proposal .
if I have the right , the bill to the S - 5 to the institutionnaliser the poetry , proposing a poet official of the Parliament .
however , puisqueMon forth . " the not permit the " reporting as I , I d?sir? to express my resistance .
the senator Grafstein I urge been 48 at the other the honourable before the adjournment of the Maritimes to the the bill to the so that out of a committee for consideration and audition the witnesses the Hon. thought , I am removals today , the the island , but it is that the necessarily my last word .
he has been the time , virtually the discour , the , regardless , the other . the opinion and the receiving the .
he has been the the months to the make .
he would now that the few people to the Parliament , live and mangent literature the pr?cipitent abracadabrant in the cogs of the enthusiasm .
he must be something that the process of the production spark , the the the so time , as discourse the requirements , the Canadian the time to the research , the entire and the drafting .
finally , I accommoderai the Honourable Senator Phillips the seriousness of the ideas . is never in itself a year futile .
it is , I embassy now that the debate be adjourned . my remarks .
as a blue , but what pleased coincidence , I relisais the end of weekly Edgar Allan Poe , his life and his beloved , a written the Charles Baudelaire 115 the 1852 .
i have to the two thousand litt?raires that are these two major po?tes , the I do I have exit the university the the years of the years , a admiration illimit?e .
i am so biais? , let - the .
however , I retrouvais this famous the Canadian labour the Baudelaire , and I quote :
painters the Vigny the actions a book , on Stello , 1832 ) the opportunity to the place . the poetry not . or in a r?publique , or in a commentary organized , or in a commentary constitutional ... - ...
the Baudelaire add :
... - ... and human not to the answer .
Stello promoter a point of the well , the the I share almost fully .
i do I do the time , for the reason oats the the beginning of my comments , the door in the detail .
the be kind , and the claim that Stello the be transpos? mutatis mutandis the Canadian the Canadian the poetry the 1830 the same the field of our time , he is the one instance fundamental to withhold , the the least I , I .
he said :
grain the life po?tique the Canadian life policy .
the to the letter :
let the C?sar the the land , C?sar , the motion ? " - that the right to be the year earlier , each day honni in the street , out in the palais , fighting sourdement , min? length , beating handcuff and gone violemment .
second prescription the the dismissal Noir the the Milton :
one and free , accomplish his ardent .
" and conditions of the be , alternatives the the impact of the Associations , the the most attractive .
the the Canadian Solitude only is the source of the inspirations .
the I , what many , the importance of statement .
the importance , the motion of Nature the Canadian the work of the po?tique that the not cannot embrigader .
a versificateur , a rimeur up to the verset , yes , the - be , but not a authentique poet - that have done
i do then I imagine that a poet in the soul would the emprisonner in the carcan that includes the word official .
in the , he is question of the Canadian a place in the the " seems .
what is the border of the parlance and the power ?
i would heart that it is the Canadian minceur the the jury the Canadian guillotine the d?colleta Andr Ch?nier , Milton .
i would say , the this border . did jadis the Canadian tax . the Index Roman or the the court the condamna the Milton the Baudelaire , the in thief as the other .
it your , only a very small idea , for the the Canadian poetry not be no - the first , the C?sars , the the Popes , the the empereurs , the the despotes the first acabit .
the the motion to the honour to the Milton .
today , the Canadian border of the parlance and the political is also distante that the space the harsh the the land native the Milton exil? and pers?cut? .
i do I wish to the the time , read the comments of my honourable friend , the senator Kinsella .
i the will the the adjournment , after the Maritimes .
i believe that , for the course , the end of the speech , the other day , the the baigne in a nostalgia surann?e .
i am in will be better accommodate the little , and if I have had advised the comments , I delegation I , please .
i consider that the proposal of the senator Grafstein has a voluntary the moisi victorien , and I am sorry to the " in attendance of the joli buste the Speakers the committee , this room of Assembly , just above - that the blood stream , Your Honour .
that is the the past , our ability to dream , the our talents of explorateurs ?
this is as if we , Canadians , we are ?cartel?s - the above the one ab?me , further and also noted that the coast to us harsh the our mothers patries ; ?cartel?s of our past and our challenges .
the hang the one practice or the one poised vacuum the meaning would the the one another Carleton the country ins?curit? national ?
this is as if we roof the Quiet to innover .
we , we to the point d?ficients ?
i thought , but I - I illusionn? , the country tradition democratic Corel to us dissidents the the carcans and the the ways of the " the world regards .
i do about the to the Milton , I timely a conviction conviction .
( the Canadian motion of the senator Kinsella , the the name of the senator Lynch - Staunton , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act , the Immigration
bill to the Second - Second Reading - Consideration of the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I wish to the leave to the this section , name to the name of the Honourable Senator Grafstein , the the the intent of the subject .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable - the " and honourable senators , this section , name to the name of the Honourable Senator Grafstein ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the debate is stands . )
official languages
the Canadian the second report of the committee Joint Committee
the Senate proceeded to the study of the second report of the committee Joint Committee of the Official Languages ( the character bilingual the Canadian capital of the Canada ) , the " the Senate . p.m. December 1998 . - ( - ( Senator Losier - Cool ) .
the Honourable Rose - Marie Losier - Cool :
honourable senators , I move the adoption of the report .
in proposing the adoption of the report , I wish provide the very hon. Pierre Elliott Trudeau the Canadian the ceremony the Canadian proclamation of the Constitution , the 17 April 1982 :
i refer to a Canada , the men and the women of ascendance aboriginal , French or British , or fabric of the crops their courage of the political the living together in the country in the peace , the justice and the respect linked .
i refer to a Canada proud and widened the the fact , his nature bilingual , the one of the the people believe in the share and the Corel , but not in the transition of removing regional .
this is in the spirit of this vision that the committee Joint Committee of the Official Languages believes and working in the Defence of the promotion of the rights language of the communities English and French - the Canada , and the motion also in the spirit of this vision that the members of the committee quiet the adoption of the second report presented the 14 December .
the Honourable Mabel DeWare :
honourable senators , we are the agreement with the recommendations sub in the report presented by the senator Cool - Cools and we are loans to support the motion of the .
the the Hon. the
hear !
( the motion is agreed , and the report is passed . )
the Canadian the regulatory
the Canadian the Prime report of the committee Joint Committee
the Honourable Andr Hervieux - Payette :
honourable senators , I move the adoption of the report .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , you pleasure , he and the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is passed . )
the Union monetary European
the report of the committee , the business foreign - Consideration of the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
the Honourable Peter A . Stollery :
honourable senators , I wish to the article No. 4 remains name to my name .
i think that I must a word of explanation to the honourable senators , the the that the 12 days that this section found to the Order .
i have made the responsibility of this issue , the beginning of the senator Stewart the the way to retire recently .
the committee , the business foreign the summer . served in the time .
i am seek the this issue , but not in my not have the time to this .
( the debate is stands . )
the application tabled under the Canadian Act , the Transportation the the Canada During some carriers air enhancing the salaries and the agreements , with Earl - Report of the third report of the committee , the Transportation and the the communication
the Senate proceeded to the study of the third report of the committee on the Canadian and Communications and the the communication ( she the the staff ) , the " the Senate . 15 December 1998 . - ( - ( Senator Bacon ) .
the Honourable Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , I move the adoption of the report .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , you pleasure , he and the Canadian motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed and the report is passed . )
the Ontario
the bill to the Act , engineering regional - Conformity refusal of contempt Ottawa record bilingual - Inquiry - Point of the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the inquiry of the Honourable Senator Poulin , calling the attention of the Senate on the decision of the government . the Ontario , not . the one recommendation to the make the Ottawa . city bilingual , his restructuring proposed . - (
the Honourable Senator Fraser ) .
the Honourable Joan Fraser :
honourable senators , when I rise to speak , the Canadian House , I trying to the Canadian funds to both languages official .
today , however , I am exprimerai the English only to insist my voice to the Canadian all those who exhortent the government . the Ontario , the one bill relating to the new , City of Ottawa will record bilingual .
i am adresserai the honourable the English only because the I believe that he is important to recognize that is the one issue , the all the Canadian , the English , the French , who , we lifelong the the Quebec , allophones and the aboriginal , the people speak to both languages official or only a or even any of the two .
he is the good number of reasons for reasons , City of Ottawa , and not only the region . the capital national the land , the government , the should be putting bilingual .
the first , the the beneficiaries the the plan human , the motion that a great many of French , live , 125 $ I believe .
i know that the that means of the Hon. own government hesitate to recognize the legitimacy of the community linguistic , the right to be whose the government full to the the it is , the motion ? " - that a attribut the one of the Aboriginal Africans the the country .
i know that the that means of the Hon. the provincial that some other . the kind of Regardez as we would staffs , the
you discussed be grateful for all these good things that we do to you .
the arts , not to be recognized for the the honourable you .
the honourable watch not to the the " you would the the rights .
what do the state of the ?
it is wrong , honourable senators ,
it your , the impression that the honourable , in your own province , not you not suggesting as a citizen the government full the so you ancestors the leading to build the country and that the Constitution anthologies your language as the one of the two languages official of the country .
honourable senators , we know , the , since the generation , the governments beneficial successive , there was the government of the people hard to the efforts automotive to the Act up and provide a vast wide the services of French language and the help the French , building and the control their institutions community essential .
the the us regrettions the - be all profoundly the situation . the Ste Montfort and that we esp?rions the - be , as I , I , the it will resolved the way satisfaction , he is also important to recognize that the government 500,000 present the way of this , making the the French - intelligence the the schools realm .
this is the not do .
i , realize tribute to the government . the Ontario .
we dealing all the us done here , the the Parliament , and that , the the Canada , the municipalities matters of the federal - and provincial .
we know that the creation of the m?gaville is a matter of federal Provincial .
he not there has certainly no - and we are the difference .
this is also dynamic that Ottawa . a case Special .
this is a municipality commissions , certainly , but it is the not a municipality as the other , because Ottawa and Ottawa only is the capital national .
the region . the capital national not . not the capital .
this is a region , a nice region , created and managed as it is , a wonderful recognition geographical the the importance of the capital for all the Canadian ; but Ottawa , the city of Ottawa , is the capital .
the the Canada , we have two languages official .
this is a comment basic the country history , the country existence as the .
this is a the the pillars of our identity and the our political Finance .
how the person - the the Canadian capital of the country . should not mirror the fact wonderful ?
what message that abuses the " and Canadians , not only to the French , the all the Canadian , when we say that , the so we have two languages official , only the one of the motion is opposition , the in the capital it is the ?
honourable senators , the spring the , he I was the the Canadian visit Bruxelles , the capital of a country . the actions with the the problems language the rel?guent the powers to the the mighty the children .
i am sure that you know that the Belgium is divided the cantons French and flamands , but , stating , in practice and the by the legislation , Bruxelles is a city bilingual .
he should the be the and we should we in sustains .
the bandwagon players that , if we insist to the Canadian city of Ottawa , bilingual , we must also insist to the same the Hull the Senate also .
it raises a problem of individual provincial .
in the the Qu?b?coise the language English , I can add uphill that the government . the Quebec would the Hull the status official of town bilingual , as it . the fact , the other cities , there was the the I enjoyed .
but it is the in this is city of Ottawa .
i am sure , honourable senators , the us we all the neighbourhood of travelling the Canadian municipality the Ottawa . " to the government . the Ontario , imposed the this hardware - conceived the status of town bilingual .
i believe that the only the government provincial the goodies the status of a municipality commissions .
he is the in the the primacy the the courts , this effect .
we know that some frustrations opposed a resistance to this bill .
the Canadian resistance active the I am the the armed from the English , and a great the Canadian this resistance seems to express by the fear , a fear of the consequences that the status bilingual the Canadian capital national the have to the English the Rockies the Ottawa .
the course , and the people concerned the change and sometimes , this fear is valid ; however , a little of change . positive .
a little of change does the building a future better to our country and the us all , the amounts so urbanity the in the the citizens .
we can make the embrasser the change .
i think the my parents , the the English - the Nova Scotia Nova , pride of their roots , the remontaient the 200 years in our country .
they not have been mentioned French .
as the I know , no - and ancestors not speaking French , the ga?lique , yes , but not the French .
when my parents , young , the question of the Laurendeau and the the virtues not pointait the not to the darkest .
in the years 60 , when the Canada " the least including the part of the history , the the identity and the the future of our country , my parents , the midst the $ the Canadian English the the understanding them as the " the historical the the identity bilingual and biculturelle the country , the
they not have not know the French , but they have the in the the I , apprenne , because they felt that all the Canadian , in the Canadian of such as the two languages of the Canada .
they were proud that I ever got the French .
i would agree ?ternellement grateful the " in the patriation the possibility .
why we , the flag , by the , if the symbolisme not . not a ?
the symbolisme is a thing extremely important to us all .
the the motion ? the most important that the Canadian capital of the country ?
finally , I suggested that if Ottawa . is not a city as the other , the Ontario is a province . as the other .
it has always kept the number of the evidence of our identity the us are so proud of the forbearance , the opening of mind , the balance the us we targuons .
i urge the the government . the Ontario , a time , the Canadian youths the role historic the Opposition the leadership .
as we , we heard in this chamber today , and the day precedents , the motion in the Canadian study . Bryden the other motions to the Ottawa that the status of town bilingual that it deserves , the my opinion .
a plan . Her is scheduled by our colleague , the Honourable Senator Joyal , the question of the infatigable advocate of the rights of the minority that we assure .
he is the the the government , ruined .
the the need to make that , the the in the so , but it would so , preferably that the government . the Ontario to the the people . as the the predecessors before the , the the heirs the leadership and practical the role historic the motion of the person the proud protector the the the the , the Canadian better to the Canada .
i urge the first , are the government . the Ontario , the fact , the supplications the this chamber and the so , Canadians .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Beaudoin , I must unfortunately , informing that he not be the one minute before the I wished the Chair to the us tarred the Canadian Assent Royal .
managed the it will greatly , we reprendrons the debate .
honourable senators , the Senate . adjourned now , during the meantime the arrival of the very hon. No the Governor General of Gouverneure general .
... French ...
i have the honour to you do know that he has Excellency the Governor General of Gouverneure general , gone the bond of letters patent the the Excellency and Signet constituting the Honourable Antonio Lamer , Justice in the Canadian the Court Supreme the the Canada , the Acting , and the Excellency the removal the the name of His Excellency , all the actions to the " the goodwill the Governor General .
the Clerk of the Senate , reading of the commission .
he tells the the Honourable Acting the Governor General of Gouverneure general , to the Royal Assent to the bill to the following :
bill to the in the Canadian the Agreement agreement between the government . the Canada , the governments of the members of the Agency spatiale European , the government . the Japan , the government . the Federation of Russia and the government . the United - United the North the Canadian cooperation respecting the Canadian Station spatiale international civil and retired the the changes related to the other Acts , on Chapter the bill C - 4 , Chapter 35 , 1999 )
the Honourable Gilbert chairpersons , Speaker of the House of the House , the question then , the Honourable Acting the Canadian Gouverneure general , these words :
that he Your the funeral Hon. the
the House of the House of the Canada has voted certain sums required to allow the the government . defray the the Estimates , the service public .
the the name of the House of the House , I present the funeral Hon. the bill to the following :
bill to Her the Queen Majesty the credits to the board public federal , the fiscal the closing the 31 March 2000 , on Chapter the bill C - 21 , Chapter 36 , 1999 )
the the bill to the , I humbly supplied Your Honour the giving the Royal Assent .
he tells the the Honourable Acting the Canadian Gouverneure general , to the Royal Assent to the bill to the .
the House of the House of cases .
he tells the the Honourable Acting the Governor General of Gouverneure general , the simplest .
the Ontario
the bill to the restructuring regional - Conformity refusal of the government 500,000 the feasibility of Stamp to the make the Ottawa . city bilingual - Inquiry - Debate the the debate
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the inquiry of the Honourable Senator Poulin , calling the attention of the Senate on the decision of the government . the Ontario , not . the one recommendation to the make the Ottawa . city bilingual , his restructuring proposed . - (
the Honourable Senator Fraser ) .
the Honourable rald - A .
honourable senators , the Canada is a federation bilingual and multicultural , and that the essence our delegations legislation Constitutional the 1867 , our attendance .
he is in the Order of the things that the capital of the country , the bilingual .
many States federal and a much bilingual , even the multilingue .
he is exactly the " and under the Canadian Constitution Canadian , the municipalities matters of the federal Provincial , the the rule 92 ( 8 ) the Canadian Act constitutional the 1867 .
this is that the the adequacy and the powers of a board City are the attribut the the provinces .
the right to the share of the powers .
however , Ottawa . is not a city as the other , the motion of capital of the Canada .
the " the heart of the country , the great institutions federal , bilingual : the Parliament , the Canadian Court Supreme the the Canada , orchids Hall and the departments .
a section of the Constitution of the Canada , the article 16 , enjoyed the Canadian capital of the Canada and carried the the Senate . the government , is the Ottawa .
in the Supreme Munro the 1966 , the Court Supreme the the Canada has recognized that the Parliament , the court on the capital national , under the the federal r?siduelle the Constitution of the inclusion : peace , the and many of the
in this matter , the Court Supreme the acknowledged that the Parliament , the jobs . the Canadian the capital national , tough a board of the capital national and habiliter this inquiry . loading the the purchase to the embellissement the Canadian capital national .
this board of the capital national is definitely the Canadian Act , the Official Languages the it is a body created by a bill federal .
the bill federal - and poetry official , the highlights the one up to equality the use of the language English and the Canadian language French in the institutions federal , based on the federal r?siduelle the the Parliament Canadian , as the the criteria the Supreme Jones the 1975 , a judgment unanimous the country . higher court .
the part VII the Canadian Act , the Official Languages provides a certain extension of the Laurendeau and the most that a value d?claratoire the right , it has a value required .
he is the then , the Canadian Constitution , a number does the the powers in the area , we rejected .
the article 16 , the Act constitutional the 1867 , the interpretation lib?ralement and , the my opinion , the right up to the make .
some legal and have examined the question of a real District federal , as the Washington and many other capitales federal .
they have examined the question of a much of the two Christians the the River , and also the question of a multicultural federal - and two Christians .
i do I do open . debate today , the , he not . not now before us .
this , is the us , however , the motion of the Canadian a much bilingual , or more or less .
this is already . .
my colleague , the senator Serge Joyal , the invoqu? , the the support of the openness the vote of a much bilingual , the principles identified by the Court Supreme in the Committee on the 237 the the Quebec , for encadrer the negotiations of the Quebec and the Canada or the one in the the Canada , the motion ? " - that the constitutionnalisme , the democracy , the rule of the , the respect to the rights of the minority and the Evolution .
if the person deal . principle to the opportunity to a Stinson , they can certainly be confined to the renewal of the Evolution .
i end my remarks legal the the remarks of the Krever Cartwright , in the Supreme Munro , in which is lawyer invoquait the theory of the public national :
i can achieve imagine the subject of a measure legislation which range . clear the interests local or provincial and the interest more the Canada in the whole that the Canadian the development , the Canadian environmental and the the improvement of the region . the capital national .
the Krever Jean Beetz , in the Committee on the Act anti - inflation of 1976 , wrote that :
the protection . the the the , the one difference between the capital and the region . the capital .
i gather that the capital of our country . the Canadian be bilingual .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the Honourable Serge Joyal :
honourable senators , I have listened with great the public the presentation of the senator Beaudoin .
i wish to the Hon. the one distinction the the assertion the Canadian of Clement the Canadian Act , the Official Languages that the committee on the Official Languages the in the opportunity to study .
the senator Gauthier , this week , I transmettait a line on the nature specific the Canadian partieVII.
you have maintained that the part VII the one man removal , and not only d?claratoire .
now , a result in jail federal difference specifically the nature of the character d?claratoire the Canadian of Clement the Canadian Act , the Official Languages .
as it is the not couverte by the GST the Canadian law , deal of the use court possible , this part of the bill 737 the Canadian review and the the guideline of the courts Canadian .
i do I do the this notice in the context of reference to the Court Supreme the Canadian 237 the the Quebec .
this issue . was raised by the senator Gauthier by her the Speaker pro tempore the CHST the co - the committee on the Official Languages .
this issue . in the subject of a debate the the courts .
the the time when the in silos the the reading of the plaidoiries , the arguments d?velopp?s by the Court Superior the the Ontario , in the case of the Ste Montfort , will be revised to the Court federal , will the the courts of the " clarification a time to all the application real the Canadian of Clement the Canadian Act , the Official Languages .
as you the you , it would the one hostages importance to define the responsibility of the government ' s , the Canadian the role of Canada active in the support of the minority of Official Languages English or French .
i wanted to the the attention of the Honourable Senator this part a that the honourable Gauthier and Cool - Cool the importance in their trade , the subject of the Senate . the committee .
the senator Beaudoin :
honourable senators , in the TAGS , we wish to the matter .
if the motion doctor , the hope that is that recommendation and that the agents the Canadian of Clement the Canadian Act , the Official Languages a value of simply d?claratoire , but also imp?rative .
it . When , the famous v. the the article 133 , in which a court supply was said that the use of the French and the the English was indicatif and the imperative .
the Court Supreme , in a decision of 9 , 0 , the corrected the glad the " that : when the Constitution says , the clear and specific , the motion imperative .
we are battons all the the same result .
this is questioned , but it is our system .
the person to make the the arguments . strong to argue that this Act , the Official Languages the one man imperative the Canadian partieVII.
he is trying to do make our points to the courts .
the Honourable Ione Christensen :
honourable senators , the motion in the the CIBC unilingual that I rise in the debate on the decision of the government . the Ontario , not . to the " a recommendation to the seat in essence the city restructured the Ottawa .
from the the corner of the Canada located the most of the West , I find futile the idea the Canadian should this debate .
the capital of the Canada . " that the bilingual .
the Canada and the Laurendeau are seldom ; they not make the one .
since 1898 , the Yukon . the community speaking . active and proud .
today , the the members are represented by the Association speaking yukonnaise .
he is the one school French and the rate of fr?quentation the the program of immersion in French in our system of education is very high .
the the Canadian of all the people to the Yukon for the people children learn and others this great product bilingual .
the question . provincial or the one municipality , or the one in or the one of tax .
this is a question of federalism .
the reaction of the province contigu? the same the fact , the strongest people of Canadians French is lucrative unresponsive .
this is the not necessary .
Ottawa , our nation national , should mirror our linguistic and we do we accept that the least .
the Honourable Marcel Prud ' s
honourable senators , he is the in a settlement .
the recommendations of the board Royal the the Aboriginal Peoples respecting the Canadian public policy aboriginal
the Canadian the report of the committee , the Aboriginal Peoples
leave having been granted , back to the reports the committee :
the Senate proceeded to the study of the second report of the committee on the Canadian and aboriginal Peoples ( she the staff ) presented the the Senate . 15 December 1998 . - ( - ( Senator Watt ) .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . the the adoption of the report .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is passed . )
business Social , Science and Technology
leave to the committee , to the state of the system of health
the Order of the Order Order :
resuming the the debate on the motion of the Honourable Senator Kirby , seconded by the Honourable Senator Jeffrey :
that the Committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , though the review the in the report of the Canadian the system of health , the Canada .
the particular , the the Committee be authorized to examine :
the motion - governing basic the countries . based on the public . health , the Canada ;
b ) The historic the the system of health , the Canada ;
c ) ( frequently the health public in the other countries ;
d ) The system of health , the Canada - Why and constraint ;
e ) The role of the government , in the system of health , the Canada ;
that the Committee present its report final the the most later , at December 2001 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , by terrorism the the rules usuelles , the table . the Clerk of the Clerk of the Senate , the Senate . " no , the time , that the and that the report be deposited have been tabled the Canadian House of the Senate . - (
the Honourable Senator Di Nino ) .
the Honourable Marjory LeBreton :
honourable senators , the CHST the chairman of Civilization the the committee on the Canadian and business Social , the the Science and the Canadian Technology , I wish comment words , would the
he not . not indiff?rent that the few months words , will speeches the the Senate for the millennium them on the subject .
it falls to the appointed , because , the the direction of the new millennium , we meantime the authority to the Senate to study of the Canadian and services of health , the Canada and the make the .
this study . " the emergency , and the Senate is particularly , put to enable this study , if the the big the the Commons , the Canadian and considered bother often . kind of the .
honourable senators , as all the other members of the committee , I support this initiative .
the question deserves a study serious .
he is the many of ideas false r?pandues the the subject of the services of health , the Canada .
we must be the " the many realities .
we must be ordered the the role of the government , and the average , to the matter of the economically viable .
i ask respectfully the authority to do this study .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
there has the Canadian and senators , either to the honourable ?
the Honourable Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I am in tiendrai the two brief comments .
the Canadian first , the Canadian light of the debate , the in the " the Senate . week , the the cost of the study , I digress that the committee . the not the spending more of 10 per $ the chamber , the 31 March 2000 .
then , for the the concerns of next year , the not be not a study angry efficient , because we are cautious the make the most of our comparaisons international the the way of visioconf?rences the , as the same the plight the committee , the Banking , sanctions extremely , the
the so , the Canadian reference is extensive , I do I want to the the the this study the Tibetan efficient .
finally , honourable senators , I wish to present a comment on the way , we hope manage this study .
i believe that the senator Carstairs , in Yiddish the Canadian the the the committee has spoken the bill to the C - 6 , the fact out that , rigoureusement issue , our committee steering the beauty of two Liberal and the one Conservative .
the Canadian , so , when the committee steering the Belgian the establishing the part of reference to this study , we have asked to the senator Keon the the guys the us .
the senator Keon . did we help to establish the mandate , the and we , the Canadian and ideas on the way of license that the
the Canadian first time , the morning , I , I wrote that I find a that he continues to play a role in this study .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the senator Kirby :
as to the bill to the C - 6 , we fonctionnerons with a committee steering composed of four people , the the honourable Carstairs , I - the , the the side - the , and the honourable LeBreton and Keon , the the other .
i hope that the honourable essaieront the us to the knowledge - to the the senator Keon to the years of the two years in the duration this study .
honourable senators , the are there are proceeding that I want to the
i have found , in my entretenant with the the honourable the the two sides , the this study raises a public advocacy .
the Hon. the Speaker pro tempore :
you pleasure , he , honourable senators , the feasibility of Motion ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
business foreign
leave to the committee , until the date of the tabling of the report final the the study of the amendment brought to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty the the Atlantic North
the Honourable Peter A . Stollery , pursuant to the opinion du9 December 1998 , moved :
that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the premature the the results of the study contained in the report final , and the date , the 31 March 2000 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practical consequently , the table the report of the the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate . " no , and that obedience report be deposited have been tabled the the Senate .
( the motion is agreed . )
the recommendations of the board Royal the the Aboriginal Peoples respecting the Canadian public policy
leave granted to the committee , until the tabling of the report final
the Honourable Landon Pearson , the the name of the senator Watt , pursuant to the opinion of the 14 December 1998 , moved :
that , by terrorism the the Order adopted by the Senate 24 November 99 , the Committee on the Canadian and aboriginal Peoples be authorized to do a study and the present a report on the recommendations of the board Royal the the Aboriginal Peoples ( Document Parliamentary No. 2 / 35 - 508 . )
the " the basis government aboriginal and the particular , the information the point of the Canadian and aboriginal Peoples and the the other sponsors the the issues should :
2 . the statutory to the the comptrollership the the new relations structurelles ;
3 . the models of self government aboriginal to the answer to the needs of the Aboriginal Peoples and the concorder with the new relations structurelles ;
that the committee be authorized to table the report final the the most later , 16 February 2000 , and that the committee divested the powers necessary to the premature the the results of the study contained in the report final , and the date , the 29 February 2000 ; and
that the committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practical consequently , the table the report of the the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate . " no , and that obedience report be deposited have brought to the Senate .
the motion is agreed .
the Senate
the licensing of a refugee bilingual the Canadian city of Ottawa - Report of the motion
the Honourable Jean - Robert Gauthier , pursuant to the opinion of the 15 December 1998 , moved :
that , the the opinion of the Senate . the Canada , Ottawa , the capital of the Canada should be putting bilingual .
i hope that is debatable continue to be objectively .
in the Constitution of the country , these two languages . equality of Refugee and the privileges .
this motion to the Canadian province of the Ontario , declare the new quoted the Ottawa record bilingual .
the word " official the - if the the deferred to a dictionnaire - to say :
... - ... the ?mane the one authority whose , bringing lawyers , put , " ... ...
in the the " to the Canadian new quoted the Ottawa . the record bilingual and the private the the two languages official of the country . status of equality , and challenges of the federal Provincial .
i will I tell .
the - night , the the years of a debate , I have said clearly that the province of the Ontario , the Canadian declare bilingual the capital national .
many of the honourable the part of the debate and I would the deep , because it strengthens our position .
Mr. . Shortliffe the Canadian , noted in the report on the restructuring municipale that he would the the individual the the board of the municipality the Ottawa . determine the scope and the nature of the services , will available in the two languages official of the country .
he not there has no doubt that a municipality the the Ontario , the by regulation , determine the giving , and the the two languages official of the country .
a settlement City the change . quickly the the mood the the board City , the the not authority not a confidence to the fiscal the the two languages official .
i quote the " that the Senate . , continued the objective of representing the regions of the country and especially the defence the minority .
this is to this reason that I am pleased today , the plight that many of the honourable the part of the debate and I hope that you intend many of support the motion .
honourable senators , I am unborn the Ottawa .
i will have spent , my life .
i have the Canadian taxpayer the applicant that the capital of my country . the be the unilingual or , for the geological , not be not be bilingual .
i ask the my friends of the Senate . support this motion .
the Honourable l A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the motion of honour to me to support this motion . important .
i trust that the person understand why a senator , the Opposition and a senator , the province of the New - New be supporting with conviction that motion .
our province . record bilingual .
the senator Nolin :
this is the only .
the senator Kinsella :
the only province , the Canada , the record bilingual .
the senator Robichaud Robichaud the summer a pioneer the the motion of gloom the Canadian first Act , the Official Languages the country in the
i must also point of the Canadian the senator Simard , the operation of bitterness the Laurendeau in our province .
while the to us , Scotians - Brunswickois , he is sound that the capital of our country , bilingual .
this is the principle and the duty , and the so that Senator the the New - New , the I emphasize and that I support this motion .
the Honourable Marcel Prud ' s
honourable senators , the most of those my long friendship to the senator Gauthier know very well , I do gentlemen not keep silent .
i will therefore , joining the jurisdictional the the the the senator Kinsella and Gauthier . " .
the not the I do I sente not to the comfortable in the other language official .
i working in this criterion all the day over the I am came in the other place and the , if I do I do the senator Rossiter and I have the the opportunity to correct my English , you verriez that I , I still . " learn .
i am I have considered as the Deputy of the senator Gauthier .
this was a trick that some not appreciation not , but I do I have had shame the " that the all its concern , I , appuyais .
this is the the " the open the doors , the purpose of Canada , the all the minority who is entirely of the survivance the the fact French , the Canada .
he I was passed all its contacts , the the Senate . British - British , in Alberta and the in the provinces , the most r?calcitrantes .
honourable senators , he is very easy to latent to the matter popular .
my fellow - to the opposite who I have known of the other side know that I can stand a difference with passion , what the Senate . side , I have the
i could be very popular the Canadian a group of Canadians , the in the time , Tibet those who is the not the agreement with me .
this is too easily .
i the I have the blood province , Your Honour , in the years 1960 , when I have made the honourable the the Daughters of Reference Eastern Star , the " had the first ministers as lecturer .
i was supposed convey the good best Mr. Pearson , the " go to Ottawa .
the the Canadian return to Quebec and criticizing the the " had defeated , I am glad directly the provinces , in claiming that I do I do from their message .
you , you how the feminist I am I do the the Daughters of Reference Eastern Star ?
the many of other , I have been ?pingl? to my opinion political the Canadian and concerns .
i do I have chosen the seaway the Canadian facility , the challenge to push .
he is the the the armed almost loans to you assassiner the reason , your views political the some things .
the " a young carried as the hall , I listened to expect that I r?ussirai the in the change the other . opinion .
the half of the one . the were never done to the political .
the half of the one of westerners very tristes the reason , the process and not shared not the opinions political that we have here .
however , after the Canadian a half - hour of patientes explanation , they want to get to see the honourable senators , the work for the people have seen the House of the House of the House of possible today , the
i represented my voice to the Canadian the senator Kinsella and thank our friend , the great champion .
this is the not easy to be kept in Ontario , as the not the motion . in the other provinces .
this is the reason for the I commend the senator Kinsella .
he not the not afraid of anglophones the point of the .
i could appoint all the other , but I will I doubt because the I , oublierais .
i outlined the senator Kinsella because the the the motion withdrawn and I , in whom .
i would the entire my friendship and the first time , he I rarely the the side to the right , the the motion ? " - that the case , the but the case , the misguided .
certainly , the person voices the world . vantant the virtues of the Canada , but the rentrant the the country . the need forget the comments that the the viewpoint .
i just . That the 1958 the the Pakistan and the other places .
they perceived in the Canada . the things that the Canadian . the Canadian taxpayer the look .
you not you not you adjourn assume the the foreign the well , the country as the the fact , the Canada , then go to the country and denied the vast to the democracy .
this is a country time , he and being .
it requires the Canadian patience .
he is time . keep the ways vengeance , as some of the us the people .
honourable senators , each of the the one , the
we should we r?engager the the service of the Canada .
he suffice for this is per senators taking the " 10 events each year , bringing the Canada and explain what the means that the Canadian .
this is that the the senator Gauthier trying to do and the motion also that the I trying to do , the question . .
the Honourable Norman K . Atkins :
honourable senators , I wish to congratulate the senator Gauthier to his motion .
i find that he is quite the the last , name to the Order that the " that the .
in the the senator 500,000 the not . not bilingual - and I , I regret , the I venture will be the motion be adopted . the unanimous .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the Honourable Rompkey Rompkey :
honourable senators , I rise to the Canadian this motion , and that , for two major reason .
first , I wish to support the senator Gauthier .
the senator Gauthier and I have been elected all of the 1972 .
i wish simply the support my colleague , the last Parliamentary the Canadian promotion 1972 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I am sorry to you interrupt , but it is 18 at the
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I move the not . , the time .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you , you , with the honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Rompkey :
i do I do the intent of technical the Senate , but I wish to some words .
i wish saluting the senator Gauthier to the courage , and political that he has shown today , the
if I have asked to take the honourable , the motion also to the following the the comments made by the senator Fraser the one another opportunity and the .
it has said that the question . fatalities not exclusively the French , the it Carleton rather a public national .
in the the Newfoundland - devoted , I am the Canadian a group of Canadians newly arrived , since we do we have our into the Canadian Confederation Canadian that the 1949 .
in the the English unilingues , we have had to the learning of the Canada .
we are still many of the not speak , French .
in the , some of the us not speak , not the English if the the that the
we talking the language of Shakespeare .
i do the senator Cochrane the " the Canadian and remontrances .
i wish simply say that the my Island and the the Labrador , we talking a language the the view of the " the time , Shakespeare , the the cardinals century , and the not the not a decade since .
we do seek not to us justify .
this are the other , the difference of French version , not we .
the status linguistic the Ottawa . is the United the French , or the English .
this is a matter national .
i am in favour of a much bilingual , because Ottawa . the capital of the people of the Labrador .
this is the capital of all the Canadian . Et , as such , it should be to the governing the the Canada .
this provision is important .
the capital the us greatest and parties all , should mirror the character bilingual the the country and the culture the us are so proud .
this is why I support this motion , honourable senators ,
the Honourable Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , I do Saskatchewan . let the this opportunity to join my voice to the Canadian my colleagues , the two sides of the House of support the motion of my old friend the senator Jean - Robert Gauthier .
the senator Gauthier . was the Act land to speak in a time such .
since the many years , I , I , he is the ever . the persistent the the equity in this city , in this province and the first , the .
the one time as the - the , the us are witnessing the one of the spirit incompr?hensible in the capital of the province , he is very pleased that we can count on a person with the strength of character and the passion of the senator Gauthier .
he has the new the Canadian head of the forces the the canadianisme , the the equity and the the equality in the matter .
he is very real that the situation linguistic the Ottawa . the question of the National .
he is impossible to the matter in some of the the Canada . the Senate . the the some of the pioneers the most inspirants , as far the honourable blessed you to the the West , the the North or the the East , were the the people who are the fact allows the language and the culture realm .
we are very proud of these pioneers the Alberta , the as the latest my friend the senator Prud ' s , people working continually to maintain their culture .
the us we ?loignons the the centre , the Canadian values becomes difficult .
this issue is a symbol of Inuit .
i am proud of support my colleague , the senator Gauthier , the this issue .
the the citizens of St. - Paul , the structured - Biche , the Morinville and St. LaChance looking the the the existence the the Parliament , this issue , to the knowledge , they are still the the Canadian , the full .
the course , they the are quite
senator Gauthier , I would thank .
the all the honourable senators , I say that is the one of the " the Senate when we can all support a question . fundamental that the - the to our country .
the the Hon. the
hear !
the Honourable Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , in 1905 , after the birth of the ten - Seventh child , my great - far , Sophie Leblanc Martel , the left the small village of Fisheries and the Cape - Cape to go to establish the Boston , the the Massachusetts .
when it is took that the lower , it has said , the children , they not aspire the subject French , the people shacks now in a country English and that they parallel learn to speak English .
my mother , 10 , Egypt child of the family and the pediatrician , is her two years , later .
it is the ever heard my great - far to French , except when the - the r?citait the felicitations .
i think that my great - far be very 500,000 the knowledge that the small - child , the the least some , are income to the Canada , in a country bilingual .
i think that it would the agreement for the Canadian city of Ottawa , the capital of the country , the bilingual .
the " the learned the feeling that I was Irish , the one side , and American , the the other , the " the Order the question mother is took the Canadian home with a morceau the vitrail very former , affirms the one fleur the lys .
this morceau the vitrail the very now in my office , in the Victoria the the East .
after the have nettoy? , my mother the the single the one support , in the salon .
it has reported announced the my father that the children . was not only Irish but that they were also Canadians French .
the Honourable Francis William Mahovlich :
honourable senators , in 1972 , when the senator Rompkey and the senator Gauthier . was appointed , I was in Russia with a team of hockey the was bilingual .
we have won a very large success , and 1972 , the one very good year .
i wanted only wish to the am the agreement with the the the senator Rompkey , the .
the Honourable Fernand Robichaud :
honourable senators , I wish mean my support the this motion of the senator Gauthier .
i thought that you tiendriez to learning that I regard this motion .
the course , I , I .
the the many of the learning , I think that many of people held to learning , the Canadian capital national the right to be bilingual .
this is often a mistake that we do when we are in the minority : we granted , the things for learning .
the fact that we doubled the table a motion to ask that the region . the capital national rev?te the character bilingual turn , the us we have the demands .
we must develop the people to meet the two languages official of the country .
this is the " the fault condition and I support do this motion .
the Honourable Marie - P .
honourable senators , we adverse today , what the the Senate ' s our country .
as the failure if the number of our colleagues , he is the " the appropriate to complete the year 1999 , with pride , the one would the principle unanimous .
the Senate . the Canada is all the minority and all the highest , the Canadian diversity cultural and the repository of our country .
i have expressed Tuesday , my surprise the the fact that the not joining not recognize the status bilingual the Canadian capital of the Canada .
some day , later , the the service of the country , in the the legislators from the Canadian , we have been we rallier and merged the one of Senators , the one of hearts and the one of pride .
all the inspection the us support deserve our congratulations .
the Honourable Louis J . Robichaud :
honourable senators , as I have been Whip , almost insulted , when the government . the Ontario , determined that the capital national not be a - be not bilingual , as I am r?jouissais . " the time , hear , the Canadian my colleagues , the the people were offended because the " rubber the seat record bilingual the new accommodation the Ottawa .
the senator Frank Mahovlich the said , the the time that the 1972 , a grand the importance to the product to the country and the fate ; I will I also .
the Canadian . , preferring their supremacy in a field of their is paid , the hockey .
a place in the us . Six , the Laurendeau .
we delay so stop the struggles the us .
we delay so that the have the fight for the the Laurendeau the record recognized .
i do I do the intent of the event that is that the
i was absolutely sure that the motion of the senator Jean - Robert Gauthier , would agreed to the unanimous .
as the the the said , I am the one of the last in the millennium the " express .
i support . clear the Laurendeau .
the Honourable Aur?lien Gill :
the Hon. the Speaker :
if no other senator . I take the honourable , I will make .
you pleasure , he and the Canadian motion , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the senator Kinsella :
i ask the consent of the honourable senators , the the fact , the date , the motion . was passed to the unanimous .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is the the Canadian agreed , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
( the motion is agreed . )
the v9ux the Christmas
the Honourable regarding A . DeWare :
the the name of the Opposition official , I would thank , Your Honour , and that the table the the Transportation and the pages to the support the honourable we have made in this wonderful institution , we work .
i wish to Your Honour and the the honourable senators , the Canadian joyeuses celebrations and I would offer our best v9ux the the opportunity to the new millennium .
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , I am join the question friend of the opposite to you wish to all of joyeuses celebrations and you can my best v9ux to the XXle century .
i thank all the individual to their cooperation , the support and the good services . the people amendments to our country . the public . the institution .
adjournment
leave having been granted , back to the opinion of Motion to the government :
the Honourable Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government . "
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the rule 58 ( 1 ) at ) the the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate . stand today , the the remaining adjourned until the the traditional 8 February 2000 , the 14 at the
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is the it leave , honourable senators ?
the the Hon. the
the agreement .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , before the end of Motion to the Hon. the I wish I also to thank all the honourable senators , the the staff , the fact , the employee of the Senate , for their excellent support .
i wish to all of the Joyeux l and a very Bonne Persons .
we greatest a day historic , the last session of the year 1999 , the last session of the millennium .
i offer to all my best v9ux to the new year .
i regret that the Krever , Chief that the the basis , because we have served a little more than that expected , but I hope you do all the my chambers .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate . adjourned . the traditional 8 February 2000 , the 14 at the motion
